 About Me Credentials Insurance Locations Research Publications News About Me I evaluate and treat people of all ages who have anxiety, obsessivecompulsive spectrum disorders, eating disorders, tics, and many other conditions. My top priority when beginning any treatment program is establishing a compassionate and supportive relationship with all of my patients and their families. Rebecca Berry Bio video Video Player is loading. Play Mute 0:00 / 0:00 Loaded : 0% 0:00 Progress : 0% Stream Type LIVE 0:00 Playback Rate 1x Chapters Chapters Descriptions descriptions off , selected Captions captions settings , opens captions settings dialog captions off , selected Audio Track Fullscreen This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. Text Color White Black Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Background Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Transparent Window Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Transparent Semi-Transparent Opaque Font Size 50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 175% 200% 300% 400% Text Edge Style None Raised Depressed Uniform Dropshadow Font Family Proportional Sans-Serif Monospace Sans-Serif Proportional Serif Monospace Serif Casual Script Small Caps Reset restore all settings to the default values Done Close Modal Dialog End of dialog window. Close Modal Dialog This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. My approach is active, collaborative, and results driven. I work hard to teach my patients active problem-solving and skill building. My focus is on empowering individuals and families by changing cognitive and behavioral patterns using evidence-based approaches. Through this process, my hope is to help people develop the tools they need to overcome their anxiety, depression, and fears, so that they can return to leading healthy, satisfying, and productive lives. At the Child Study Center , part of Hassenfeld Childrens Hospital at NYU Langone , I coordinate the intensive treatment program for children and adolescents with anxiety disorders and obsessivecompulsive disorder, group cognitive behavioral therapy for children and adolescents with social anxiety, and educational workshops for parents of anxious children. I am also the director of the Tics, Tourette Disorder, and Trichotillomania Program at the Child Study Center, where we evaluate and treat people with motor, vocal, and body-focused repetitive behaviors, such as skin picking. I strive to continually enhance my practice through specialized training and education to better serve my patients needs. I am certified in family-based therapy for anorexia, cognitive therapy, the comprehensive model for behavioral treatment of body-focused repetitive behaviors, and the Comprehensive Behavioral Intervention for Tics. Additionally, I am committed to training future mental health providers, particularly through my continued teaching efforts with undergraduate students at NYU and predoctoral psychology interns, postdoctoral fellows, psychiatry residents, and psychiatry fellows at NYU School of Medicine. Conditions and Treatments For Adults Conditions Tourette syndrome trichotillomania anorexia anxiety disorder eating disorder obsessive compulsive disorder tic disorder panic disorder Treatments cognitive and behavioral therapy parent training View All Conditions and Treatments View All Conditions and Treatments Learn more about conditions we treat at NYU Langone: Eating Disorders in Adults , Anxiety Disorders in Adults , Mood & Anxiety Disorders in Adults , Tourette Disorder Credentials Positions Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Education and Training PhD from Columbia University, 2011 Is this your profile? Edit profile Insurance Plans Accepted This provider accepts the following insurance plans. Aetna Aetna POS (American Express Employer) Blue Cross Blue Shield BCBS EPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS EPO (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire EPO (NYU Langone Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire EPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (NYU Langone Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) BCBS PPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS PPO (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS PPO - Empire PPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) United Healthcare United Healthcare Choice (AMEX employees) United Healthcare Choice (Blackrock employees) United Healthcare Choice (CBS employees) United Healthcare Choice (Viacom Employees) United Healthcare EPO (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Indemnity (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Plus (NYU Langone Health Employees) This list of insurances changes regularly, and insurance plans listed may not be accepted at all office locations for this provider. Before your appointment, please confirm with your insurance company that this provider accepts your insurance. Locations and Appointments Child Study Center 1 Park Avenue, 7th Floor New York, NY 10016 Phone 646-754-5000 View Map Research My Research Interests Use of technology in cognitive-behavioral therapy for anxiety disorders, Intensive OCD treatments, Pure Obsessional OCD, Innovative Interventions for Tics and Tourette Disorder Read less Academic Contact Phone 646-754-4927 Publications Biphasic Zika Illness With Rash and Joint Pain Edupuganti, Srilatha; Natrajan, Muktha S; Rouphael, Nadine; Lai, Lilin; Xu, Yongxian; Feldhammer, Matthew; Hill, Charles; Patel, Shital M; Johnson, Sara Jo ; Bower, Mary; Gorchakov, Rodion; Berry, Rebecca; Murray, Kristy O; Mulligan, Mark J Open forum infectious diseases. 2017 Sep ; 4(3):ofx133 Advances in cognitive-behavioral therapy for youth with anxiety disorders: A brief summary Berry, Rebecca Rialon Current psychiatry reviews. 2016; 12(1):29-36 Cognitive Interventions Arora, Prerna; Possel, Patrick; Barnard, Allison D; Terjesen, Mark; Lai, Betty S; Ehrlich, Caroline J; Diaz, Kathleen I; Berry, Rebecca Rialon; Gogos, Anna K Cognitive and behavioral interventions in the schools : integrating theory and research into practice. New York : Springer, 2015. p.221-248. (1446492) Read All Publications (11) Related News Helping Children Cope with School Year Changes Read Story How to Manage Homeschooling Kids While Working from Home Read Story How to Deal with Tantrums When Screen Time Ends Read Story Subtle Signs of Anxiety in Children Read Story Proven Strategies for Anxious Parents & Their Children Read Story Show More 