 About Me Credentials Insurance Locations Research Publications About Me I have always been enchanted by children and their ability to simply be in the world, just as they are. I find them to be extraordinarily resilient, even under the most serious of circumstances. I wanted to further understand child development, parental roles, nature versus nurture, and the influence of the school environment on a childs growth. More broadly, I wanted to know more about how childhood disorders emerge. For these reasons, I decided to leave my first career in a corporate job to pursue child clinical psychology, a profession I found to be satisfying and fulfilling. I am the clinical director of NYU Langones Child Study CenterLong Island , where my team and I provide families with parentchild interaction therapy, school consultation, individual and family therapy, social skills training groups, medications for a wide variety of clinical disorders, and neuropsychological testing. For the past 17 years, I have also been the director of the Child Study Centers Summer Program for Kids , an evidence-based day camp for children 7 to 11 years old who have been diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and behavior disorders. I was also the site coordinator of a landmark multisite clinical trialthe Multimodal Treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (MTA) studydesigned to determine the most effective treatments for children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Treatment must include the parents if we are to best help the child. If a child is struggling in school, the teachers input and involvement are also important to successful treatment. The key is regular discussions among all professionals caring for the child, allowing us to monitor progress and symptoms from various angles. Conditions and Treatments For Adults For Children Treatments parent training Conditions attention deficit hyperactivity disorder oppositional defiant disorder disruptive behavior disorder behavior disorder Treatments behavior therapy View All Conditions and Treatments View All Conditions and Treatments Learn more about conditions we treat at NYU Langone: Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder in Children , Behavioral Problems in Children Credentials Positions Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Psychiatry at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Director, NYU Summer Program for Kids Clinical Director, NYU Langone Child Study Center-Long Island Education and Training PsyD from Yeshiva University, 1989 Is this your profile? Edit profile Insurance Plans Accepted This provider accepts the following insurance plans. Aetna Aetna POS (American Express Employer) Blue Cross Blue Shield BCBS EPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS EPO (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire EPO (NYU Langone Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire EPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (NYU Langone Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) BCBS PPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS PPO (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS PPO - Empire PPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) United Healthcare United Healthcare Choice (AMEX employees) United Healthcare Choice (Blackrock employees) United Healthcare Choice (CBS employees) United Healthcare Choice (Viacom Employees) United Healthcare EPO (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Indemnity (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Plus (NYU Langone Health Employees) This list of insurances changes regularly, and insurance plans listed may not be accepted at all office locations for this provider. Before your appointment, please confirm with your insurance company that this provider accepts your insurance. Locations and Appointments Child Study Center - Long Island 1991 Marcus Avenue, Suite 104 New Hyde Park, NY 11042 Phone 516-358-1808 View Map Child Study Center 1 Park Avenue, 7th Floor New York, NY 10016 Phone 646-754-5000 View Map Research Academic Contact Academic office 1981 Marcus Avenue Lake Success, NY 11042 Phone 516-358-1808 Research Interests Timeline These focus areas and their associated publications are derived from PubMed and the MeSH term library. * represents one publication Loading... Skip timeline Central Nervous System Stimulants Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity Methylphenidate Psychotherapy Affect 2004 2004 2005 *Due to PubMed processing times, the most recent publications may not be reflected in the timeline. Publications Children with ADHD treated with long-term methylphenidate and multimodal psychosocial treatment: impact on parental practices Hechtman, Lily; Abikoff, Howard; Klein, Rachel G; Greenfield, Brian; Etcovitch, Joy; Cousins, Lorne; Fleiss, Karen; Weiss, Margaret; Pollack, Simcha Journal of the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry. 2004 Jul ; 43(7):830-8 Social functioning in children with ADHD treated with long-term methylphenidate and multimodal psychosocial treatment Abikoff, Howard; Hechtman, Lily; Klein, Rachel G; Gallagher, Richard; Fleiss, Karen; Etcovitch, Joy; Cousins, Lorne; Greenfield, Brian ; Martin, Diane; Pollack, Simcha Journal of the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry. 2004 Jul ; 43(7):820-9 Academic achievement and emotional status of children with ADHD treated with long-term methylphenidate and multimodal psychosocial treatment Hechtman, Lily; Abikoff, Howard; Klein, Rachel G; Weiss, Gabrielle; Respitz, Chara; Kouri, Joan; Blum, Carol; Greenfield, Brian; Etcovitch, Joy ; Fleiss, Karen; Pollack, Simcha Journal of the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry. 2004 Jul ; 43(7):812-9 Read All Publications (4) 