 About Me Credentials Locations Publications News About Me My interest in sports medicine is the result of my long personal history with sports. Having competed at national and international levels in track, rugby, fencing, and waterskiing, Ive had my fair share of injuries and broken bones. After fracturing my tibia in a friendly game of rugby, I became fascinated by the screws and plates used to patch me up. I decided not only to pursue a career in sports medicine but also to focus on foot and ankle injuries. As director of the Foot and Ankle Center at NYU Langone, I specialize in Achilles tendon injuries, ankle instability, and ligament reconstruction, and offer my patients individualized treatments that may include either surgical or nonsurgical options. I pride myself on offering my patients treatments that make the most sense for them individually. If surgery is necessary, I thoroughly explain the procedure and what they can expect afterward. Not everyone needs surgery, however. My team and I have been at the forefront of investigating nonsurgical treatments for orthopedic injuries and conditions. As a result, we are able to offer patients platelet-rich plasma (PRP) therapy, stem cell therapy, and fat cell therapy. I have collaborated with many national and international universities on research studies about cartilage regeneration, tendon healing, and bone growth. This effort has resulted in more than 200 publications and more than 500 national and international presentations. As one of the founding members of the International Society on Cartilage Repair of the Ankle (ISCRA), Ive helped pioneer innovative technologies to help prevent cartilage degeneration. At ISCRA, my colleagues and I brought together a group of surgeons from more than 40 countries to create universal treatment strategies for osteochondral lesions of the talus. This collaborative effort, the first of its kind, may have profound and long-lasting effects on the diagnosis and treatment of these types of injuries. Its one of the proudest moments of my career and a testament to the world-class clinical care we offer at the Foot and Ankle Center. Credentials Positions Professor, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Chief Division of Foot and Ankle Surgery Education and Training Fellowship, Hospital for Special Surgery, Foot & Ankle Surgery, 2003 Fellowship, Mem Sloan-Kettering Cancer Ctr, Oncologic Surgical, 2002 Fellowship, Children's Hospital (Boston, MA), Pediatric Orthopedic, 1996 Fellowship, Tufts University School of Medicine, Reconstruct Surgery, 1996 Is this your profile? Edit profile Locations and Appointments Joan H. and Preston Robert Tisch Center at Essex Crossing 171 Delancey Street New York, NY 10002 Phone 929-455-2670 View Map Request an Appointment Publications Early Failures of Polyvinyl Alcohol Hydrogel Implant for the Treatment of Hallux Rigidus Shimozono, Yoshiharu; Hurley, Eoghan T; Kennedy, John G Foot & ankle international. 2020 Oct 10; 1071100720962482 Autologous osteochondral transplantation for osteochondral lesions of the talus: high rate of return to play in the athletic population Seow, Dexter; Shimozono, Yoshiharu; Gianakos, Arianna L; Chiarello, Eugenio; Mercer, Nathaniel; Hurley, Eoghan T; Kennedy, John G Knee surgery, sports traumatology, arthroscopy. 2020 Aug 28; Arthroscopic Debridement and Autologous Micronized Adipose Tissue Injection in the Treatment of Advanced-Stage Posttraumatic Osteoarthritis of the Ankle Shimozono, Yoshiharu; Dankert, John F; Kennedy, John G Cartilage. 2020 Aug 06; 1947603520946364 Read All Publications (238) Related News NYU Langone Debuts New Technology in Foot & Ankle Procedure Read Story Surgeons Take Rare Approach to Repair Severe Ankle Injury Read Story Renowned Orthopedic Surgeon to Lead Foot & Ankle Division Read Story Show More 