 About Me Credentials Locations Research Publications About Me Since I was five years old, I knew I wanted to become a doctor and help people. I was inspired by my father, who was a dentist and trained at NYU College of Dentistry. I was interested in becoming a pediatrician or a psychiatrist, until I worked with bones and joints during my orthopedics rotations in medical school. Ive been a foot and ankle surgeon for more than 25 years. During that time, my patients have included people of all ages, athletic abilities, and walks of life. When people come to me, they can expect to be treated like members of my own family. I partner with each person and customize treatment plans to meet each ones specific needs. Treatment plans can include medication, physical therapy, injections, shoe modifications, braces, prosthetics, or surgery. As a foot and ankle specialist, I treat traumatic injuries, overuse injuries, tendon injuries, ligament disorders, joint disorders, rheumatic conditions, and deformities in adults at Joan H. and Preston Robert Tisch Center at Essex Crossing . I also treat congenital conditions in children at Hassenfeld Childrens Hospital at NYU Langone . At NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital , I perform total ankle replacements. Because Im particularly interested in ankle and hindfoot arthritis, I have invented an artificial ankle joint that corrects deformity and restores function. My clinical work drives my biomechanical and basic science research. I have researched nearly every condition that affects the foot and ankle. I have published more than 180 peer-reviewed papers and 110 other publications. I have trained approximately 500 students, researchers, residents, and fellows worldwide. I am a former president of the American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society (AOFAS) and a consultant to professional and collegiate sports teams and dance companies. I am also a co-inventor of several medical devices used to help treat challenging musculoskeletal conditions. I have earned numerous awards, including the 2012 Johns Hopkins University Professors Award for Excellence in Teaching, AOFAS Humana Award, AOFAS Roger Mann Award, AOFAS Goldner Award, the MedStar Union Memorial Hospital Golden Apple Award, and the 2015 Johns Hopkins University Biomedical Engineering Clinical Innovator Award. I was made an honorary member of the German Foot and Ankle Society and the Israeli Foot and Ankle Society. Credentials Positions Clinical Professor, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Board Certifications American Board of Orthopedic Surgery - Orthopedic Surgery, 1993 Education and Training Fellowship, University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Orthopedic Surgery, 1990 Residency, Hospital for Joint Diseases - Rusk Institute at New York University, Orthopedic Surgery, 1989 MD from Albany Medical College, 1984 Is this your profile? Edit profile Locations and Appointments Joan H. and Preston Robert Tisch Center at Essex Crossing 171 Delancey Street New York, NY 10002 Phone 929-455-2670 View Map Request an Appointment Research My Research Interests Ankle Arthroplasty, Sports Foot and Ankle, Tendinopathy, Foot and Ankle Reconstruction Read less Publications Titrating the Amount of Bony Correction in Progressive Collapsing Foot Deformity Ellis, Scott J; Johnson, Jeffrey E; Day, Jonathan; de Cesar Netto, Cesar; Deland, Jonathan T; Hintermann, Beat; Myerson, Mark S; Schon, Lew C ; Thordarson, David; Sangeorzan, Bruce J Foot & ankle international. 2020 Sep 01; 1071100720950741 Classification and Nomenclature: Progressive Collapsing Foot Deformity Myerson, Mark S; Thordarson, David; Johnson, Jeffrey E; Hintermann, Beat; Sangeorzan, Bruce J; Deland, Jonathan T; Schon, Lew C ; Ellis, Scott J; de Cesar Netto, Cesar Foot & ankle international. 2020 Aug 28; 1071100720950722 Consensus on Indications for Isolated Subtalar Joint Fusion and Naviculocuneiform Fusions for Progressive Collapsing Foot Deformity Hintermann, Beat; Deland, Jonathan T; de Cesar Netto, Cesar; Ellis, Scott J; Johnson, Jeffrey E; Myerson, Mark S; Sangeorzan, Bruce J ; Thordarson, David; Schon, Lew C Foot & ankle international. 2020 Aug 27; 1071100720950738 Read All Publications (185) 