 About Me Credentials Insurance Locations Research Publications News About Me I was born in Brooklyn, and although I lived elsewhere during college and residency training, I consider myself a lifelong New Yorker. While getting my MD and PhD in molecular pharmacology from Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx, I realized I was especially fascinated by the field of dermatology. I loved taking care of children when I rotated through pediatrics as a medical student, so I chose to combine these interests and specialize in pediatric and adolescent dermatology. Seth Orlow, MD Seth Orlow Bio Video Player is loading. Play Mute 0:00 / 1:55 Loaded : 0% 0:00 Progress : 0% Stream Type LIVE -1:55 Playback Rate 1x Chapters Chapters Descriptions descriptions off , selected Captions captions settings , opens captions settings dialog captions off , selected Audio Track default , selected Fullscreen This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. Text Color White Black Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Background Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Transparent Window Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Transparent Semi-Transparent Opaque Font Size 50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 175% 200% 300% 400% Text Edge Style None Raised Depressed Uniform Dropshadow Font Family Proportional Sans-Serif Monospace Sans-Serif Proportional Serif Monospace Serif Casual Script Small Caps Reset restore all settings to the default values Done Close Modal Dialog End of dialog window. Close Modal Dialog This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. I arrived at NYU Langone in 1990, joining one of the leading dermatology departments in the world. Whether treating a newborn or a college student, I want to do everything I can to help my patients and to support their families, while always balancing the benefits and risks of a particular treatment. In my research, I have worked to determine the risks associated with certain birthmarks and skin growths, such as hemangiomas, and have collaborated with molecular geneticists to identify genetic changes that cause congenital skin conditions. Ive also worked to improve how we treat eczema and psoriasis in children and teenagers. In 2003, I received a Lifetime Achievement Award from the American Skin Association. Conditions and Treatments For Children Conditions atopic dermatitis eczema acne birthmark psoriasis hemangioma genetic skin disease hair disease mole skin disease pigmentation disorder fungal infection lichen planus vitiligo seborrheic dermatitis squamous cell cancer Treatments skin cancer screening View All Conditions and Treatments View All Conditions and Treatments Learn more about conditions we treat at NYU Langone: Eczema & Dermatitis , Acne , Birthmarks in Children , Psoriasis , Vitiligo , Infections After Stem Cell or Organ Transplants Credentials Positions Samuel Weinberg Professor of Pediatric Dermatology, Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Professor, Department of Cell Biology at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Professor, Department of Pediatrics at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Chair, Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology Director, Program in Cutaneous Biology Board Certifications American Board of Dermatology (Pediatric Dermatology), 2004 American Board of Dermatology - Dermatology, 1990 Education and Training Fellowship, Yale - New Haven Medical Center, Pediatric Dermatology, 1990 Residency, Yale - New Haven Medical Center, Dermatology, 1989 MD from Albert Einstein College of Med, 1986 PhD from Albert Einstein College of Med, 1986 Is this your profile? Edit profile Insurance Plans Accepted This provider accepts the following insurance plans. Blue Cross Blue Shield BCBS EPO (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire EPO (NYU Langone Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire EPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (NYU Langone Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) BCBS PPO (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS PPO - Empire PPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) Health Smart WTC Health Program-HHC United Healthcare United Healthcare EPO (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Indemnity (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Plus (NYU Langone Health Employees) This list of insurances changes regularly, and insurance plans listed may not be accepted at all office locations for this provider. Before your appointment, please confirm with your insurance company that this provider accepts your insurance. Locations and Appointments Video Visits See a doctor from your mobile device instead of an in-person appointment. Learn more about video visits . Schedule a Video Visit NYU Dermatologic Associates 530 1st Avenue, Suite 7R New York, NY 10016 Phone 212-263-5889 View Map I'm new, and I want an in-person visit. I'm new, and I need a physical. I have seen this doctor before. I'm new, and I want an in-person visit. Schedule an Office Visit NYU Dermatologic Associates 240 East 38th Street, 12th Floor New York, NY 10016 Phone 212-263-5015 View Map Schedule with MyChart If you have a NYU Langone Health MyChart account, you can login and schedule your visit in two easy steps. If you have a NYU Langone Health MyChart account, you can login and schedule your visit in two easy steps. Schedule with MyChart Your login attempt was unsuccessful. Please complete all fields. MyChart Username Forgot your Username? MyChart Password Forgot your Password? Login Cancel Schedule as Guest You will receive an email with your appointment confirmation and instructions for how you can create a NYU Langone Health MyChart account. Continue as Guest Continue as Guest You will receive an email with your appointment confirmation and instructions for how you can create a NYU Langone Health MyChart account. Learn More About NYU Langone Health MyChart You can schedule appointments, view test results, communicate with your doctor, and more using our patient portal, NYU Langone Health MyChart. Schedule with MyChart As a returning patient for this doctor, please schedule an appointment using your MyChart at NYU Langone Health account. Login to MyChart Account Help To activate a MyChart at NYU Langone Health account, or to retrieve your existing account, please fill out our form . If you have an account but can't login, we can help you find your username or reset your password . Learn more about MyChart at NYU Langone Health You can schedule appointments, view test results, communicate with your doctor, and more using our portal, MyChart at NYU Langone Health . My research has improved treatments for eczema and psoriasis in children and teenagers. Seth J. Orlow, MD, PhD Pediatric Dermatologist Research My Research Interests development of novel targeted therapies in melanoma and other cancers, molecular and cellular basis of pigmentation, cancer, pharmacology Read less Research Summary 1. Development of novel therapeutics for the treatment of a number of cancers including melanoma and multiple myeloma, as well as unraveling pathways underlying chemoresistance in these tumors. To do so, we utilize small molecule screening of already-approved drugs ("drug repositioning") and of natural products combined with molecular and cellular techniques. 2. Understanding the cell biology of melanin synthesis and deposition in the skin, hair and eyes, including the processing and trafficking of tyrosinase, the rate-limiting enzyme in melanin production, as well as the pathogenesis of various forms of oculocutaneous albinism that diminish pigmentation. 3. Elucidating the pathogenesis of vitiligo, in which melanocytes in the skin are destroyed, including the role of endoplasmic reticulum stress and the unfolded protein response. Read less Research Interests Timeline These focus areas and their associated publications are derived from PubMed and the MeSH term library. * represents one publication Loading... Skip timeline Melanocytes Skin Neoplasms Monophenol Monooxygenase Melanins Melanoma 1990 2014 2010 2006 2002 1998 1994 2018 *Due to PubMed processing times, the most recent publications may not be reflected in the timeline. Publications The Alopecia Areata Consensus of Experts (ACE) Study PART II: Results of an International Expert Opinion on Diagnosis and Laboratory Evaluation for Alopecia Areata Meah, Nekma; Wall, Dmitri; York, Katherine; Bhoyrul, Bevin; Bokhari, Laita; Sigall, Daniel Asz; Bergfeld, Wilma F; Betz, Regina C; Blume-Peytavi, Ulrike ; Callender, Valerie; Chitreddy, Vijaya; Combalia, Andrea; Cotsarelis, George; Craiglow, Brittany; Donovan, Jeff; Eisman, Samantha; Farrant, Paul; Green, Jack; Grimalt, Ramon; Harries, Matthew; Hordinsky, Maria; Irvine, Alan D; Itami, Satoshi; Jolliffe, Victoria; King, Brett; Lee, Won-Soo; McMichael, Amy; Messenger, Andrew; Mirmirani, Paradi; Olsen, Elise; Orlow, Seth J; Piraccini, Bianca Maria; Rakowska, Adriana; Reygagne, Pascal; Roberts, Janet L; Rudnicka, Lidia; Shapiro, Jerry; Sharma, Pooja; Tosti, Antonella; Vogt, Annika; Wade, Martin; Yip, Leona; Zlotogorski, Abraham; Sinclair, Rodney D Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology. 2020 Sep 11; The &quot;bumpy&quot; adolescent nose: Acne associated angiofibroma-like nasal papules Roman, Jorge; Krueger, Loren D; Young, Trevor K; Rieder, Evan A; Rothman, Lisa R; Lakdawala, Nikita; Nagler, Arielle R; Meehan, Shane A ; Orlow, Seth J; Oza, Vikash S Pediatric dermatology. 2020 Aug 07; A Review of Vitamin D and Scarring: The Potential for New Therapeutics Akoh, Christine C; Orlow, Seth J Journal of drugs in dermatology : JDD. 2020 Jul 01; 19(7):742-745 Read All Publications (270) Related News NYU Langone Receives Grant for Melanoma Research Read Story Treatment of Severe Acne Hampered by Drug Delays Read Story A Surprising Remedy for Strawberry Marks Read Story Show More 