 Credentials Insurance Locations Research Publications News Credentials Positions Leon H. Charney Professor of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Medicine at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Professor, Department of Pediatrics at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Professor, Department of Cell Biology at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Professor, Department of Microbiology at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Board Certifications American Board of Pediatrics - Pediatrics, 1981 Education and Training Fellowship, NIH - National Institute of Health, Medical Genetics, 1984 Fellowship, Boston Children's Hospital, Gasteoenterology, 1982 PhD from Massachusetts Inst of Tech, 1982 MPH from University of NC - Chapel Hill, 1978 Residency, Duke University Hospital, Pediatric Medicine, 1977 MD from New York University, 1975 Is this your profile? Edit profile Insurance Plans Accepted This provider accepts the following insurance plans. Aetna Aetna HMO Aetna Indemnity Aetna Medicare Aetna POS Aetna PPO/EPO Cigna Cigna EPO/POS Cigna PPO Emblem Emblem Select Care Exchange Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield EPO Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield HMO Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield HealthPlus Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield HealthPlus Essential Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield Indemnity Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield MediBlue Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield POS Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield PPO GHI GHI CBP GHI HMO HIP HIP Access I HIP Access II HIP Child Health HIP EPO/PPO HIP Essential HIP HMO HIP Medicaid HIP Medicare HIP POS HealthSmart HealthSmart (WTC) Healthfirst Healthfirst Healthfirst Essential Humana Humana Medicare Local 1199 Local 1199 PPO MagnaCare MagnaCare PPO Medicare Medicare MetroPlus MetroPlus Child Health MetroPlus Essential MetroPlus Exchange Plans MetroPlus Medicaid MetroPlus Medicare MultiPlan/PHCS MultiPlan/PHCS PPO NYS Health Insurance Plan The Empire Plan Oxford Oxford Freedom Oxford Liberty Oxford Medicare Railroad Medicare Railroad Medicare Tricare Tricare UHC UnitedHealthcare EPO UnitedHealthcare HMO UnitedHealthcare Medicare UnitedHealthcare POS UnitedHealthcare PPO UnitedHealthcare Top Tier UPN UPN Elite View All Accepted Plans This list of insurances changes regularly, and insurance plans listed may not be accepted at all office locations for this provider. Before your appointment, please confirm with your insurance company that this provider accepts your insurance. Locations and Appointments NYU Cardiac Catheterization Associates 530 1st Avenue New York, NY 10016 Phone 212-263-7751 View Map Research My Research Interests lipoprotein metabolism, atherosclerosis Read less Research Summary My laboratory is involved in two major themes of research: 1. The cell biology of hepatic lipid and lipoprotein metabolism: Atherogenic lipoproteins contain apoprotein B (apoB) and cholesteryl esters. The net production of apoB is determined not at the level of synthesis, but at the level of intracellular, pre-secretory, degradation. My lab has been the first to demonstrate a non-proteasomal pathway of apoB degradation regulated by dietary fatty acids, a process that may also be regulated by insulin. Importantly, this non-proteasomal pathway may be dysregulated in insulin-resistance (such as seen in adults, and, unfortunately, a growing number of adolescents, with type II diabetes or obesity) and, thereby, contribute to the over-production of atherogenic lipoproteins that increase the risk of coronary artery disease in these metabolic states. To further pursue the proteasomal and non-proteasomal regulation of apoB degradation, my laboratory is using cell and molecular biological approaches on experimental models as diverse as cell-free systems and tissue-specific knockout mice. 2. The molecular biology of vascular diseases. My laboratory is also interested in the molecular factors that regulate the progression and regression of atherosclerotic plaques, a disease process now known to begin in childhood. This research relies on mouse models of atherosclerosis and current projects focus on: the regression of plaques after the normalization of hyperlipidemia; the effects of HDL on plaque progression and regression; To get at the molecular levels that regulate changes induced by the various experimental conditions in specific arterial wall cell types, his laboratory has pioneered the use of laser capture microdissection to isolate plaque macrophages in order to study gene expression. Recently, by using novel mouse models developed by us and our collaborators and these powerful techniques, my laboratory has published reports that foam cells can leave plaques during regression and they require dendritic cell properties for this emigration. We also have an active collaboration in the imaging of atherosclerosis in living mice. With Dr. Zahi Fayad at Mount Sinai, we have recently shown that HDL particles can be converted to nanoplatforms to deliver MRI enhancing agents to plaques to better visulaize them. Our goal is to adapt these particles for molecular imaging purposes. Read more Research Interests Timeline These focus areas and their associated publications are derived from PubMed and the MeSH term library. * represents one publication Loading... Skip timeline Atherosclerosis Macrophages Apolipoproteins B Lipoproteins, HDL Plaque, Atherosclerotic 1988 2015 2010 2006 2001 1997 1992 2020 *Due to PubMed processing times, the most recent publications may not be reflected in the timeline. Publications Platelet Conditioned Media Induces an Anti-inflammatory Macrophage Phenotype through EP4 Heffron, Sean P; Weinstock, Ada; Scolaro, Bianca; Chen, Shiyu; Sansbury, Brian E; Marecki, Greg; Rolling, Christina C; El Bannoudi, Hanane ; Barrett, Tessa; Canary, James W; Spite, Matthew; Berger, Jeffrey S; Fisher, Edward A Journal of thrombosis & haemostasis : JTH. 2020 Nov 10; -carotene conversion to vitamin A delays atherosclerosis progression by decreasing hepatic lipid secretion in mice Zhou, Felix; Wu, Xiaoyun; Pinos, Ivan; Abraham, Benjamin M; Barrett, Tessa J; von Lintig, Johannes; Fisher, Edward A; Amengual, Jaume Journal of lipid research. 2020 Nov ; 61(11):1491-1503 Lipoprotein insulin resistance score in nondiabetic patients with obesity after bariatric surgery Zhang, Ruina; Lin, BingXue; Parikh, Manish; Fisher, Edward A; Berger, Jeffrey S; Aleman, Jose O; Heffron, Sean P Surgery for obesity & related diseases. 2020 Oct ; 16(10):1554-1560 Read All Publications (386) Related News Simplified Good Cholesterol Counters Atherosclerosis Read Story A Metabolic Path from Diabetes to Cardiovascular Disease Read Story New Advances in Cardiac & Vascular Research Read Story Matching the Biggest Mysteries with the Brightest Minds Read Story Mechanism Shown to Reverse Disease in Arteries Read Story Four Strategies for Preventing Coronary Artery Disease Read Story Public Heart Health Lecture Series Kicks Off Read Story Show More 