 About Me Credentials Insurance Locations Research Publications News About Me As the chair of the department of child and adolescent psychiatry and the director of the Child Study Center at NYU Langone, I lead a team of specialists whose shared goal is to enable every child to thrive. My clinical and research specialty area is infant and preschooler mental health, particularly the development and neuroscience of anxiety and mood disorders in children ages two through five. Helen Egger, MD Helen Egger Bio Video Video Player is loading. Play Mute 0:00 / 0:00 Loaded : 0% 0:00 Progress : 0% Stream Type LIVE 0:00 Playback Rate 1x Chapters Chapters Descriptions descriptions off , selected Captions captions settings , opens captions settings dialog captions off , selected Audio Track Fullscreen This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. Text Color White Black Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Background Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Transparent Window Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Transparent Semi-Transparent Opaque Font Size 50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 175% 200% 300% 400% Text Edge Style None Raised Depressed Uniform Dropshadow Font Family Proportional Sans-Serif Monospace Sans-Serif Proportional Serif Monospace Serif Casual Script Small Caps Reset restore all settings to the default values Done Close Modal Dialog End of dialog window. Close Modal Dialog This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. I grew up in a family where there was a lot of commitment to children. My great grandfather was a psychiatrist and advocate for children with intellectual disabilities. My mother took a revolutionary step and, when I was seven, returned to school to become a psychiatrist. I had always been captivated by peoples stories and I knew that I, too, wanted a career in which I could make a big difference in peoples lives. At NYU Langone, I am developing innovative tools to gather, analyze, and interpret information about childrens behaviors, emotions, and development. Translating these results into evidence-based guidance may help parents and clinicians assess children in different settings. For example, I created a diagnostic interview to help evaluate developmental symptoms and disorders in young children. I also use tools such as brain imaging to understand emotional, social, and brain development and have conducted community-based studies to understand the epidemiology of mental health issues. My most recent work looks at ways to use technology to help improve childrens access to participation in research studies. I have led teams in developing apps that help parents learn more about their children and get evidence-based guidance in their homes and communities. Much of the strength I can share with patients and their parents comes from being a parent, myself, who has faced unique challenges. At NYU Langone, my goal is to create more initiatives to help children by building bridges between disciplines and across specialties, such as adult psychiatry and population health. Mental health issues are just as common in young children as they are in older children and adolescents. The earlier we intervene, the better our chance of helping children get back on track with social and emotional development. Credentials Positions Arnold Simon Professor of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Chair, Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Education and Training Fellowship, Duke University Medical Center, Psychiatry & Neurology, 2000 Fellowship, Duke University Medical Center, Child/Adoles Psych, 1998 Residency, Duke University Medical Center, Psychiatry, 1996 MD from Yale University, 1991 Is this your profile? Edit profile Insurance Plans Accepted This provider accepts the following insurance plans. Aetna Aetna POS (American Express Employer) Blue Cross Blue Shield BCBS EPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS EPO (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire EPO (NYU Langone Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire EPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (NYU Langone Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) BCBS PPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS PPO (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS PPO - Empire PPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) United Healthcare United Healthcare Choice (AMEX employees) United Healthcare Choice (Blackrock employees) United Healthcare Choice (CBS employees) United Healthcare Choice (Viacom Employees) United Healthcare EPO (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Indemnity (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Plus (NYU Langone Health Employees) This list of insurances changes regularly, and insurance plans listed may not be accepted at all office locations for this provider. Before your appointment, please confirm with your insurance company that this provider accepts your insurance. Locations and Appointments Child Study Center 1 Park Avenue, 7th Floor New York, NY 10016 Phone 646-754-5000 View Map Request an Appointment Research Academic Contact Academic office 1 Park Avenue Seventh Floor Research Interests Timeline These focus areas and their associated publications are derived from PubMed and the MeSH term library. * represents one publication Loading... Skip timeline Mental Disorders Child Behavior Disorders Anxiety Disorders Mood Disorders Attention Deficit and Disruptive Behavior Disorders 2003 2015 2012 2011 2008 2007 2004 2017 *Due to PubMed processing times, the most recent publications may not be reflected in the timeline. Publications Cognitive impact of early separation from migrant parents: A spectrum of risk and key mechanisms in child development contexts. A commentary on Hou et al., (2020) Zhao, Chenyue; Egger, Helen Social science & medicine. 2020 Oct 10; 113427 Digital Behavioral Phenotyping Detects Atypical Pattern of Facial Expression in Toddlers with Autism Carpenter, Kimberly L H; Hahemi, Jordan; Campbell, Kathleen; Lippmann, Steven J; Baker, Jeffrey P; Egger, Helen L; Espinosa, Steven; Vermeer, Saritha ; Sapiro, Guillermo; Dawson, Geraldine Autism research. 2020 Sep 14; Author Correction: Atypical postural control can be detected via computer vision analysis in toddlers with autism spectrum disorder Dawson, Geraldine; Campbell, Kathleen; Hashemi, Jordan; Lippmann, Steven J; Smith, Valerie; Carpenter, Kimberly; Egger, Helen; Espinosa, Steven ; Vermeer, Saritha; Baker, Jeffrey; Sapiro, Guillermo Scientific reports. 2020 Jan 14; 10(1):616 Read All Publications (79) Related News Schools Out: A Parents Guide for Meeting the Challenge Read Story Digital Tools Advance Mental Health Research & Care Access Read Story NYU Langone Hosts Healthcare Technology Symposium & Datathon Read Story A New App Will Help Families of Picky Eaters Read Story NYU Langone Launches App to Study Picky Eating Read Story Apps Help Interpret Early Childhood Mental Health & Behavior Read Story New App Helps Parents Screen Their Child for Autism Read Story Autism Screening App Is Easy to Use & Yields Good Data Read Story Managing Toddler Tantrums Read Story Chair of Department of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Named Read Story Show More 