 About Me Credentials Insurance Locations Research Clinical Trials Publications About Me I chose to specialize in psychiatry because of my keen interest in the emotional, cognitive, and behavioral workings of the brain. I care for and treat people whose mood, anxiety, or behavior symptoms interfere with their ability to function optimally. Video Player is loading. Play Mute 0:00 / 0:00 Loaded : 0% Progress : 0% Stream Type LIVE 0:00 Playback Rate 1x Chapters Chapters Descriptions descriptions off , selected Captions captions settings , opens captions settings dialog captions off , selected Audio Track Fullscreen This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. Text Color White Black Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Background Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Transparent Window Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Transparent Semi-Transparent Opaque Font Size 50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 175% 200% 300% 400% Text Edge Style None Raised Depressed Uniform Dropshadow Font Family Proportional Sans-Serif Monospace Sans-Serif Proportional Serif Monospace Serif Casual Script Small Caps Reset restore all settings to the default values Done Close Modal Dialog End of dialog window. Close Modal Dialog This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. Psychiatrists are like detectives. We ask a lot of questions and we probe. We dont only talk to our patientsin my case, both children and adultsbut also to the people in their lives. I talk to parents, grandparents, teachers, nannies, children, and spouses to get a detailed view of what is going in my patients lives. Only then can I get an accurate view of how I can help. I also talk to other clinicians at NYU Langones Child Study Center . We have weekly conferences in which we discuss our evaluations and the treatments a patient is receiving. Each meeting is centered on one question: Are we doing whats best for this person? We look at what current evidence tells us is the best treatment option for the patient, and then we see if that option fits the persons lifestyle, family, and culture. We each ask ourselves, If this person were my family member, what kind of care would I want for him or her? In addition to seeing patients, I am currently involved in research focusing on adult attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). I have also participated in research on autism and mood and anxiety disorders. One of the most enjoyable moments in my day is teaching, and my trainees have presented me with a NYU School of Medicine Teacher of the Year Award for 2015. In addition, I am honored to consistently be on Castle Connollys Americas Top Doctors lists. Conditions and Treatments For Children Conditions Tourette syndrome bipolar disorder obsessive compulsive disorder attention deficit hyperactivity disorder mood disorder anxiety disorder attention deficit disorder in adults autism sports concussion concussion Treatments cognitive and behavioral therapy psychopharmacology View All Conditions and Treatments View All Conditions and Treatments Credentials Positions Associate Professor, Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Associate Professor, Department of Psychiatry at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Associate Professor, Department of Pediatrics at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Supervisor, FGP Fellowship Program Medical Director, NYU Langone Child Study Center Lead, Reputation and Community Outreach Medical Director, NYU Langone Child Study Center Board Certifications American Board of Psychiatry & Neurology (Child & Adolescent Psychiatry), 1985 American Board of Psychiatry & Neurology - Psychiatry, 1984 Education and Training Fellowship, New York State Psychiatric Institute, Child Psychiatry, 1984 Fellowship, Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, Child Psychiatry, 1984 Residency, Society of the NY Hospital White Plains Div., Psychiatry, 1982 MD from Albert Einstein College of Med, 1979 Is this your profile? Edit profile Insurance Plans Accepted This provider accepts the following insurance plans. Aetna Aetna POS (American Express Employer) Blue Cross Blue Shield BCBS EPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS EPO (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire EPO (NYU Langone Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire EPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (NYU Langone Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) BCBS PPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS PPO (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS PPO - Empire PPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) Health Smart WTC Health Program-HHC United Healthcare United Healthcare Choice (AMEX employees) United Healthcare Choice (Blackrock employees) United Healthcare Choice (CBS employees) United Healthcare Choice (Viacom Employees) United Healthcare EPO (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Indemnity (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Plus (NYU Langone Health Employees) This list of insurances changes regularly, and insurance plans listed may not be accepted at all office locations for this provider. Before your appointment, please confirm with your insurance company that this provider accepts your insurance. Locations and Appointments Child Study Center 1 Park Avenue, 7th Floor New York, NY 10016 Phone 646-754-5000 View Map Request an Appointment Research Academic Contact Academic office 1 Park Avenue Seventh Floor New York, NY 10016 Phone 646-754-5100 Clinical Trials and Research Studies Study of the Duration and Efficacy of MYDAYIS on Adult ADHD Symptoms and Executive Function In Early Evening Learn More Understanding the Benefits of Cannabidiol in Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder Learn More View All Research Studies (2) Publications Dosing and Monitoring: Children and Adolescents Hirsch, Glenn S Psychopharmacology bulletin. 2018 Feb 05; 48(2):34-92 Differences among trainees in client outcomes associated with the phase model of change Budge, Stephanie L; Owen, Jesse J; Kopta, S Mark; Minami, Takuya; Hanson, Matthew R; Hirsch, Glenn Psychotherapy. 2013 Jun ; 50(2):150-7 The possible role of the kynurenine pathway in adolescent depression with melancholic features Gabbay, Vilma; Klein, Rachel G; Katz, Yisrael; Mendoza, Sandra; Guttman, Leah E; Alonso, Carmen M; Babb, James S; Hirsch, Glenn S; Liebes, Leonard Journal of child psychology & psychiatry & allied disciplines. 2010 Aug ; 51(8):935-43 Read All Publications (12) 