 About Me Credentials Insurance Locations Research Publications News About Me I became a physician because I love working with children, adolescents, and young adults. The things they do and say fill me with wonder, and the struggles children and their parents sometimes face inspire me to do my best work. Video Player is loading. Play Mute 0:00 / 0:00 Loaded : 0% Progress : 0% Stream Type LIVE 0:00 Playback Rate 1x Chapters Chapters Descriptions descriptions off , selected Captions captions settings , opens captions settings dialog captions off , selected Audio Track Fullscreen This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. Text Color White Black Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Background Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Opaque Semi-Transparent Transparent Window Color Black White Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan Transparency Transparent Semi-Transparent Opaque Font Size 50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 175% 200% 300% 400% Text Edge Style None Raised Depressed Uniform Dropshadow Font Family Proportional Sans-Serif Monospace Sans-Serif Proportional Serif Monospace Serif Casual Script Small Caps Reset restore all settings to the default values Done Close Modal Dialog End of dialog window. Close Modal Dialog This is a modal window. This modal can be closed by pressing the Escape key or activating the close button. As a psychiatrist, I help children, adolescents, and their parents to manage a broad spectrum of mental health conditions, including mood and anxiety disorders, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, disruptive behavior disorders, and sleep disorders, in addition to a variety of high-risk behaviors like drug and alcohol use, self-injury, and unprotected sex. Every child and parent has a unique perspective and set of concerns. My job is to listen and learn from them, and then share the evidence-based strategies that I think will best help them. Some treatment strategies include psychotherapies, school and community-based interventions, medications, or a combination of all three. I am dedicated to the care of my patients. I lead the educational efforts of the Child Study Center at Hassenfeld Childrens Hospital at NYU Langone supervising the child and adolescent psychiatry residency training program, medical student education, and our weekly grand rounds conference. I developed and continue to direct one of the nations largest undergraduate college programs in child and adolescent mental health studies (CAMS), at the College of Arts and Sciences at NYU. Within CAMS, we offer nearly 50 unique undergraduate courses, in addition to a series of interventions, including rapid education in sleep training (REST) and the wellness initiative at NYU (WIN). Both of these programs incorporate randomized controlled research trials so that we can determine the best way to improve sleep among college students and enhance their general resilience. Additionally, I have authored more than 100 articles, chapters, and published abstracts throughout my career, along with 3books. Conditions and Treatments For Children Conditions attention deficit hyperactivity disorder disruptive behavior disorder autism anxiety disorder eating disorder sleep disorder mood disorder Tourette syndrome Treatments psychotherapy parent training View All Conditions and Treatments View All Conditions and Treatments Credentials Positions Professor, Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Professor, Department of Pediatrics at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Director, Undergraduate Studies in Child and Adolescent Mental Health Vice Chair of Education, Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Board Certifications American Board of Psychiatry & Neurology (Child & Adolescent Psychiatry), 2003 American Board of Psychiatry & Neurology - Psychiatry, 2001 Education and Training Fellowship, UCLA Medical Center, Child & Adol. Psych., 2001 MD from SUNY-Downstate CollegeMedicine, 1996 MPH from University of NC - Chapel Hill, 1988 Is this your profile? Edit profile Insurance Plans Accepted This provider accepts the following insurance plans. Aetna Aetna POS (American Express Employer) Blue Cross Blue Shield BCBS EPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS EPO (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire EPO (NYU Langone Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire EPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (NYU Langone Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) BCBS PPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS PPO (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS PPO - Empire PPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) Health Smart WTC Health Program-HHC United Healthcare United Healthcare Choice (AMEX employees) United Healthcare Choice (Blackrock employees) United Healthcare Choice (CBS employees) United Healthcare Choice (Viacom Employees) United Healthcare EPO (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Indemnity (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Plus (NYU Langone Health Employees) This list of insurances changes regularly, and insurance plans listed may not be accepted at all office locations for this provider. Before your appointment, please confirm with your insurance company that this provider accepts your insurance. Locations and Appointments Child Study Center 1 Park Avenue, 7th Floor New York, NY 10016 Phone 646-754-5000 View Map Request an Appointment Research Academic Contact Academic office 1 Park Avenue Seventh Floor New York, NY 10016 Phone 646-754-4900 Publications Increasing Access for the Treatment of Eating Disorders Among College Students Shatkin, Jess P JAMA network open. 2020 Aug 03; 3(8):e2016117 Preventing child and adolescent mental illness-we got this McDonald, M K; Shatkin, J P Adolescent psychiatry (2011). 2020; 10(2):142-161 Pharmacological interventions Jummani, Rahil R; Shatkin, Jess P Handbook of cognitive behavioral therapy for pediatric medical conditions. Cham, Switzerland: Springer Nature Switzerland AG; Switzerland, 2019. p.151-169. (4630412) Read All Publications (43) Related News Digital Tools Advance Mental Health Research & Care Access Read Story Show More 