 About Me Credentials Insurance Locations Research Publications News About Me As a psychologist, I guide individuals and families through treatment for mental health conditions with compassion and kindness. I am passionate about providing children, adolescents, and adults with individualized care using evidence-based practices and ensuring that each persons voice is heard during treatment. I deeply value learning from others on my team and have a keen interest in new ideas. As clinical director of the Gender and Sexuality Service at the Child Study Center at Hassenfeld Childrens Hospital at NYU Langone , I follow a gender-affirmative model of care and provide gender assessments for transitional care working with children, adolescents, young adults, and their families. I collaborate daily with our multidisciplinary team of providers dedicated to transgender health. Additionally, I supervise psychology and psychiatry trainees in gender-affirmative evaluations and psychotherapy. I conduct individual and group therapy as part of the Anita Saltz Institute for Anxiety and Mood Disorders . Specifically, I treat patients who have anxiety disorders, mood disorders, tics and Tourette disorder, trichotillomania and body-focused repetitive behaviors, and school refusal using cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), dialectical behavioral therapy (DBT), and habit reversal training. In addition to clinical care, I am committed to teaching and training future mental health workers. I teach undergraduate students at New York University, as well as psychology interns, psychology externs, and psychiatry fellows at the Child Study Center. I also provide clinical supervision to predoctoral psychology interns, externs, and postdoctoral fellows. Credentials Positions Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Clinical Director, Gender and Sexuality Service, Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Education and Training PsyD from Yeshiva University, 2016 Is this your profile? Edit profile Insurance Plans Accepted This provider accepts the following insurance plans. Aetna Aetna POS (American Express Employer) Blue Cross Blue Shield BCBS EPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS EPO (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire EPO (NYU Langone Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire EPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (NYU Langone Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) BCBS PPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS PPO (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS PPO - Empire PPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) United Healthcare United Healthcare Choice (AMEX employees) United Healthcare Choice (Blackrock employees) United Healthcare Choice (CBS employees) United Healthcare Choice (Viacom Employees) United Healthcare EPO (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Indemnity (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Plus (NYU Langone Health Employees) This list of insurances changes regularly, and insurance plans listed may not be accepted at all office locations for this provider. Before your appointment, please confirm with your insurance company that this provider accepts your insurance. Locations and Appointments Child Study Center 1 Park Avenue, 7th Floor New York, NY 10016 Phone 646-754-5000 View Map Research My Research Interests dissemination, implementation, transgender youth, cognitive behavioral therapy Read less Academic Contact Phone 646-754-5071 Research Interests Timeline These focus areas and their associated publications are derived from PubMed and the MeSH term library. * represents one publication Loading... Skip timeline Sex Reassignment Surgery Mental Health 2019 2020 *Due to PubMed processing times, the most recent publications may not be reflected in the timeline. Publications The Complexities of Treatment Planning for Transgender Youth with Co-Occurring Severe Mental Illness: A Literature Review and Case Study Janssen, Aron; Busa, Samantha; Wernick, Jeremy Archives of sexual behaviour. 2019 Oct ; 48(7):2003-2009 A Review of Evidence Based Treatments for Transgender Youth Diagnosed with Social Anxiety Disorder Busa, Samantha; Janssen, Aron; Lakshman, Mallika Transgender health. 2018 Feb ; 3(1):27-33 Transgender Adolescents and the Gender-Affirming Interventions: Pubertal Suppression, Hormones, Surgery, and Other Pharmacological Interventions Busa, Samantha M; Leibowitz, Scott; Janssen, Aron Affirmative Mental Health Care for Transgender and Gender Diverse Youth : A Clinical Guide. Cham, Switzerland : Springer, 2018. p.49-62. (3143582) Read All Publications (6) Related News Celebrating Pride & Supporting LGBTQ+ Teens During COVID-19 Read Story Show More 