 Credentials Insurance Locations Research Publications Credentials Positions Lulu P. and David J. Levidow Assistant Professor of Neurology, Department of Neurology at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Board Certifications American Board of Psychiatry & Neurology - Neurology, 2015 Education and Training Fellowship, Massachusetts General Hospital, Behavioral Neurology, 2016 Residency, Brigham and Women's Hospital/Massachusetts General Hospital, Neurology, 2015 MD from University of Miami, 2011 MBA from University of Miami, 2011 Is this your profile? Edit profile Insurance Plans Accepted This provider accepts the following insurance plans. Aetna Aetna HMO Aetna Indemnity Aetna International Aetna Medicare Managed Care Aetna Meritain Health Aetna Open Access EPO Aetna Open Access HMO Aetna POS Aetna POS (American Express Employer) Aetna PPO Aetna Signature Administrators PPO Aetna Student Plan Allied Chesterfield Resources Inc Christian Brothers Services CoreSource Healthscope Nippon Life of America-Aetna Nippon Life-Aetna Starmark WellNet Blue Cross Blue Shield BCBS Blue Access EPO Large Group BCBS Blue Access EPO Small Group BCBS Blue Access GEPO Large Group BCBS Blue Access GEPO Small Group BCBS Blue Access HMO Small Group BCBS Blue Access PPO Large Group BCBS EPO BCBS EPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS EPO (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire EPO (NYU Langone Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire EPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (NYU Langone Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS EPO - Empire NYU Care (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) BCBS Federal Program BCBS Florida Blue Care HMO BCBS Florida Blue Medicare PPO BCBS Florida Blue Options PPO BCBS Florida Blue Select BCBS Florida MyBlue HMO BCBS Florida Simply Blue BCBS Florida Traditional PPC BCBS HMO BCBS Indemnity BCBS Local 32BJ Employees BCBS Mediblue Medicare HMO BCBS Mediblue Medicare PPO BCBS POS BCBS PPO BCBS PPO (BlackRock Employees) BCBS PPO (NYU Winthrop Employees) BCBS PPO - Empire PPO (Sunset Park/Family Health Center Employees) BCBS PPO/EPO Small Group New York Hotel Trades Cigna Apwu Health Plan Cigna Great West PPO Cigna HMO Cigna Indemnity Cigna Managed Care/POS Cigna NALC Cigna Open Access Cigna Open Access PPO Cigna PPO Cigna Premier Plus Great West HMO MVP-Cigna Network Wellfleet-NYU Student Connecticare Connecticare Commercial Emblem Emblem Select Care Basic Exchange Emblem Select Care Bronze Exchange Emblem Select Care Gold Exchange Emblem Select Care Platinum Exchange Emblem Select Care Silver Exchange GHI American Plan Administrators GHI CBP (City of New York Employees) GHI Emblem Health EPO GHI Emblem Health PPO GHI HMO GHI HMO Medicare GHI Medicare PPO GHI Medicare Supplement GHI Network Access - Benefit Services of PA GHI Network Access - Total Plan Concepts IUOE Local 14-14B Wlny-TV Inc. HIP HIP Access I HIP Access II HIP Bridge HIP Child Health Plus HIP EPO HIP HMO HIP Medicare Supplement HIP Medicare VIP HIP POS HIP Prime Bronze HIP Prime Gold HIP Prime Platinum HIP Prime Silver HIP VIP Medicare - VIP Go HIP Vytra Healthcare Managed Care Local 1199 Local 1199 - NYU Hospital Member Choice Local 1199 PPO Magnacare Magnacare PPO Medicare Medicare Part B Multiplan AXA Assistance USA Administrative Concepts Beech Street PPO Diversified Administration Corporation Fiserv Health GEHA Global Excel Global Health Guardian Life Insurance Co Of America Health Net Of California Health Republic Of NJ Humana Health Plan Insurance Design Administrators Kaiser Foundation Kaiser Permanente Meritain Health Multiplan PPO Multiplan-Capital Dist Phys Health Mutual Of Omaha Nippon Life Ins Co PHCS Professional Benefit Admin Qualcare Inc Screen Actors Guild Teamsters Allied Benefits US Life Insurance Company NYSHIP - The Empire Plan NYS Health Insurance Plan - The Empire Plan Oxford Oxford Health Plans Freedom Oxford Health Plans Liberty POMCO Insurance Company POMCO Insurance Company Qualcare Inc. Qualcare Direct Railroad Medicare Palmetto GBA Railroad Medicare United Healthcare AARP Medicare Complete Oxford Health Plans Medicare Advantage UMR UMR WTC Health Program United Healthcare AARP United Healthcare All Savers United Healthcare Choice United Healthcare Choice (AMEX employees) United Healthcare Choice (Blackrock employees) United Healthcare Choice (CBS employees) United Healthcare Choice (Viacom Employees) United Healthcare Choice NSLIJ United Healthcare EPO United Healthcare EPO (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare HMO United Healthcare Indemnity United Healthcare Indemnity (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Medicare United Healthcare Navigate United Healthcare POS United Healthcare PPO United Healthcare Plus (NYU Langone Health Employees) United Healthcare Student Resources United Healthcare Value, Advantage and HDHP (New York University employees) UnitedHealthcare Choice (JP Morgan Employees) View All Accepted Plans This list of insurances changes regularly, and insurance plans listed may not be accepted at all office locations for this provider. Before your appointment, please confirm with your insurance company that this provider accepts your insurance. Locations and Appointments NYU Pearl Barlow Center for Memory Evaluation and Treatment 145 East 32nd Street, 2nd Floor New York, NY 10016 Phone 212-263-3210 View Map I'm new, and I want an in-person visit. I have seen this doctor before. I'm new, and I want an in-person visit. Schedule an Office Visit Schedule with MyChart If you have a NYU Langone Health MyChart account, you can login and schedule your visit in two easy steps. If you have a NYU Langone Health MyChart account, you can login and schedule your visit in two easy steps. Schedule with MyChart Your login attempt was unsuccessful. Please complete all fields. MyChart Username Forgot your Username? MyChart Password Forgot your Password? Login Cancel Schedule as Guest You will receive an email with your appointment confirmation and instructions for how you can create a NYU Langone Health MyChart account. Continue as Guest Continue as Guest You will receive an email with your appointment confirmation and instructions for how you can create a NYU Langone Health MyChart account. Learn More About NYU Langone Health MyChart You can schedule appointments, view test results, communicate with your doctor, and more using our patient portal, NYU Langone Health MyChart. Schedule with MyChart As a returning patient for this doctor, please schedule an appointment using your MyChart at NYU Langone Health account. Login to MyChart Account Help To activate a MyChart at NYU Langone Health account, or to retrieve your existing account, please fill out our form . If you have an account but can't login, we can help you find your username or reset your password . Learn more about MyChart at NYU Langone Health You can schedule appointments, view test results, communicate with your doctor, and more using our portal, MyChart at NYU Langone Health . Research My Research Interests social determinants of health, cognitive resilience, brain health, cognitive aging, Alzheimer's disease, neurodegenerative disease, population health Read less Research Summary Dr. Joel Salinas is a cognitive-behavioral neurologist with expertise in epidemiology and health outcomes research. As director of the UNICORN Lab, hismission is to understand how our social environments and our brain biology are linked together and harness what we learn to design and implement strategies for improving brain health at the population level using interventions that are universal, precise, and human-centered. Healthy brain functioning is vital for our society to flourish. Yet dementia and cerebrovascular disease remain extremely common and devastating neurologic diseases; drug trials to treat Alzheimers disease and other causes of dementia remain largely unsuccessful. Thus, these age-related neurologic diseases not only represent a persistent slow-growing threat to our society, but also a looming threat to each of us and our loved ones. Many established risk factors for these diseases are based in biology and physiology, such as genetics and high blood pressure, though an emerging body of evidence suggests that the risk and course of these diseases may be heavily influenced much further upstream by a category of potentially modifiable risk factors known as social determinants . One social determinant that is of specific interest is social relationships. Improved physical and mental health are closely associated with stronger social relationships, which encompass distinct functional (social support) and structural elements (social networks). The evidence implicating social isolation and loneliness with higher risk of stroke, cognitive dysfunction, and accumulation of Alzheimers disease pathology suggests that a complementary socially-based approach to potential therapeutic targets is necessary. Studying social determinants for their impact on brain health could help us learn how to leverage them for prevention and therapy. Underlying molecular responses to genetic and environmental exposures begin early in disease development, so the parallel study of related preclinical molecular, physiological, neuropsychological, and imaging markers of vulnerability for cognitive decline allows for a unique opportunity to identify neurobiological pathways for the social determinants of brain health. Therefore, he uses the intersection of biology and sociology to understand the mechanisms through which social environments alter brain biology and use these insights to improve brain health for the population. His research specifically applies socio-behavioral science, health outcomes research methods, and mathematical network theory in longitudinal epidemiologic cohorts to identify the influence of a persons social environment as an independent predictor of brain health outcomes, particularly cognitive resilience and markers of vulnerability for cognitive decline. These findings then inform social interventions that are designed to balance between being universal (able to be scaled at the population level; equally representative and accessible to underrepresented minority groups), precise (despite being universal, the same intervention is designed to be complex and nuanced enough on the back end that it can dynamically address specific barriers, motivations, needs, and other characteristics at the level of the individual), and human-centered (commitment to authentic empathy, compassion, and kindness to involve the human perspective in all steps of the process with a focus on improving brain health outcomes that truly matter to the person). His research approach is uniquely positioned to contribute to the next generation of insights, tools, and strategies that ultimately will: (1) provide practical and empowering guidance to patients, clinicians, and caregivers; (2) clarify the temporal relationship between dynamic social determinants in relation to risk and biological progression of cognitive decline; (3) enhance intervention studies in Alzheimers disease and related conditions; and, (4) extend beyond neurology to increase our wider mechanistic understanding of the social determinants of health and aging. Improving our understanding of social determinants of brain health will provide the backbone for a novel, paradigm-shifting clinical approach to treat age-related neurologic disease and radically improve population health. This work, at a minimum, will generate useful findings to contextualize existing work, inform future health interventions, and support emerging areas of clinical research in neurology. In the long term, Dr. Salinas and the UNICORN Labare committed to advancing these methods and concepts to one day create a virtuous cycle between the physical, mental, and social aspects of health that are necessary for all of us to thrive. Read more Academic Contact Academic office 222 East 41st Street 14th Floor New York, NY 10017 Phone 212-263-3210 Fax 212-263-3273 Publications Associations between social relationship measures, serum brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and risk of stroke and dementia Salinas, Joel; Beiser, Alexa; Himali, Jayandra J; Satizabal, Claudia L; Aparicio, Hugo J; Weinstein, Galit; Mateen, Farrah J; Berkman, Lisa F ; Rosand, Jonathan; Seshadri, Sudha Alzheimer's & dementia: translational research & clinical interventions. 2017 Jun ; 3(2):229-237 Whole blood microRNA expression associated with stroke: Results from the Framingham Heart Study Salinas, Joel; Lin, Honghuang; Aparico, Hugo J; Huan, Tianxiao; Liu, Chunyu; Rong, Jian; Beiser, Alexa; Himali, Jayandra J; Freedman, Jane E ; Larson, Martin G; Rosand, Jonathan; Soreq, Hermona; Levy, Daniel; Seshadri, Sudha PLoS one. 2019 May ; 14(8):e0219261 Particulate matter and episodic memory decline mediated by early neuroanatomic biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease Younan, Diana; Petkus, Andrew J; Widaman, Keith F; Wang, Xinhui; Casanova, Ramon; Espeland, Mark A; Gatz, Margaret; Henderson, Victor W ; Manson, JoAnn E; Rapp, Stephen R; Sachs, Bonnie C; Serre, Marc L; Gaussoin, Sarah A; Barnard, Ryan; Saldana, Santiago; Vizuete, William; Beavers, Daniel P; Salinas, Joel A; Chui, Helena C; Resnick, Susan M; Shumaker, Sally A; Chen, Jiu-Chiuan Brain. 2020 01 01; 143(1):289-302 Read All Publications (16) 