 About Me Credentials Insurance Locations Research Clinical Trials Publications News About Me Every baby is precious, and that understanding has deepened my commitment to ensuring they thrive and reach their full potential. As a neonatologist who cares for newborns, I have learned that a person is a person, no matter how small. I am honored to help babies born early or with medical conditions develop into healthy children and adults. As the chief of neonatology at NYU Langone HospitalLong Island , I lead a research program that has special expertise in the areas of reproductive immunology, which studies the maternal immune system to understand various triggers that lead to preterm delivery. We are also actively researching the role of breast milk in improving newborn health as well as developing innovative methods to diagnose and treat swallowing problems in newborns. Credentials Positions Professor, Department of Pediatrics at NYU Long Island School of Medicine Board Certifications American Board of Pediatrics (Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine), 1997 Education and Training Fellowship, Women & Infants Hospital of Rhode Island, Neonatal/Perinatal, 1996 Residency, Albany Medical Center, Pediatrics, 1993 Is this your profile? Edit profile Insurance Plans Accepted This provider accepts the following insurance plans. Aetna Aetna HMO Aetna Indemnity Aetna Medicare Aetna POS Aetna PPO/EPO Cigna Cigna EPO/POS Cigna PPO Emblem Emblem Select Care Exchange Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield HealthPlus Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield HealthPlus Essential Fidelis Fidelis Child Health Fidelis Essential Fidelis Exchange Fidelis Medicaid Fidelis Medicare GHI GHI CBP GHI HMO HIP HIP Access I HIP Access II HIP Child Health HIP EPO/PPO HIP Essential HIP HMO HIP Medicaid HIP Medicare HIP POS HealthSmart HealthSmart (WTC) Healthfirst Healthfirst Healthfirst Essential Humana Humana Medicare Local 1199 Local 1199 PPO MagnaCare MagnaCare PPO Medicaid NY Medicaid Medicare Medicare MultiPlan/PHCS MultiPlan/PHCS PPO NYS Health Insurance Plan The Empire Plan Oxford Oxford Freedom Oxford Liberty Oxford Medicare Railroad Medicare Railroad Medicare Three Rivers Three Rivers Provider Network Tricare Tricare UHC UnitedHealthcare EPO UnitedHealthcare HMO UnitedHealthcare Medicare UnitedHealthcare POS UnitedHealthcare PPO UnitedHealthcare Top Tier VNS Visiting Nurse Service (VNS) Medicare View All Accepted Plans This list of insurances changes regularly, and insurance plans listed may not be accepted at all office locations for this provider. Before your appointment, please confirm with your insurance company that this provider accepts your insurance. Locations and Appointments NYU Langone Pediatric Associates - Mineola 259 1st Street Mineola, NY 11501 Phone 516-663-3853 View Map Research My Research Research Summary Infants born prematurely are at increased risk of early postnatal and laterdevelopmental problems. Approximately 25% of premature babies less than 25weeks have severe disabilities. Very premature infants who do not have severedisabilities are nevertheless at increased risk for cognitive, perceptual andbehavioral problems. With advances in prenatal and neonatal care, there hasbeen an improvement in survival, but improvements in function and outcomehave lagged. The optimal way to reduce complications of prematurity is toreduce the incidence of prematurity itself. My research track is focused in the area of reproductive immunology. Thestudies done at NYU Winthrop Hospital will contribute significantly to ourunderstanding of the molecular pathogenesis of preterm labor and the role ofexposure to environmental toxicants on this pathologic process. This workwill help bridge the gap between clinical and basic research and provides anovel model on the pathogenesis of preterm labor. As our understanding of theimmune mechanisms behind preterm labor grows, these findings may ultimatelysuggest new strategies to predict, treat or prevent preterm labor. Clinicalsamples collected in our studies include term, preterm and second-trimesterplacentas, breast milk as well as cord and eonatal blood mononuclear cells.Current research projects at the Women and Children Research Center include: The role of placental exosomes and microRNAs in mediating placentalimmune tolerance to infection Novel biomarkers to predict preterm labor Role of breast milk exosomes in inducing anti-inflammatory neonatalmilieu Role of progesterone in regulating the production of placenta cytokines Develop methodology that provides non-invasive technique to predict andmonitor preterm labor. Elucidating environmental toxins-linked mechanisms of preterm labor Read more Clinical Trials and Research Studies Neonatal saliva and urine exosomes as non-invasive biomarkers for neonatal outcomes in preterm infants Learn More Biomarkers for preterm births using non-invasive samples Learn More WUH: Effect of storage on breast milk cytokines in premature infants in the first 4 weeks after birth Learn More View All Research Studies (3) Publications Outcomes of Maternal-Newborn Dyads After Maternal SARS-CoV-2 Verma, Sourabh; Bradshaw, Chanda; Auyeung, N S Freda; Lumba, Rishi; Farkas, Jonathan S; Sweeney, Nicole B; Wachtel, Elena V; Bailey, Sean M; Noor, Asif ; Kunjumon, Bgee; Cicalese, Erin; Hate, Rahul; Lighter, Jennifer L; Alessi, Samantha; Schweizer, William E; Hanna, Nazeeh; Roman, Ashley S; Dreyer, Benard; Mally, Pradeep V Pediatrics (1948). 2020 10 ; 146(4): Synthetic Surfactant CHF5633 Compared with Poractant Alfa in the Treatment of Neonatal Respiratory Distress Syndrome: A Multicenter, Double-Blind, Randomized, Controlled Clinical Trial Ramanathan, Rangasamy; Biniwale, Manoj; Sekar, Krishnamurthy; Hanna, Nazeeh; Golombek, Sergio; Bhatia, Jatinder; Naylor, Martha; Fabbri, Laura ; Varoli, Guido; Santoro, Debora; Del Buono, Dorothea; Piccinno, Annalisa; Dammann, Christiane E Journal of pediatrics. 2020 Oct ; 225:90-96.e1 Hydrocortisone and bronchopulmonary dysplasia: variables associated with response in premature infants Clauss, Christie; Thomas, Stacey; Khodak, Igor; Tack, Valentyna; Akerman, Meredith; Hanna, Nazeeh; Tiozzo, Caterina Journal of perinatology. 2020 Sep ; 40(9):1349-1357 Read All Publications (64) Related News Doctors Detect & Treat Preterm Infant Feeding Problems Read Story New Diagnostic Approach Detects Feeding Problem in Infants Read Story 2017 Nobel Prize Winner Discusses Research Read Story Show More 