 About Me Credentials Insurance Locations Clinical Trials Publications About Me While growing up, I was always fascinated by the field of medicine and the impact a physician can have on the community and society. Pediatrics was one of the reasons I wanted to pursue medicine, because children can be influenced in a positive way at a young age by teaching them preventive medicine. Children are very resilient and have a strength and endurance which I find amazing. I was ultimately drawn to neonatology because of the intense nature and importance of the field, and the fulfillment everyone experiences when a baby does well. At NYU Langone HospitalLong Island , I work in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) where I provide diagnosis and treat newborn infants with breathing disorders, infections, birth defects, and other conditions. I manage the medical care necessary for premature infants or critically ill newborns, especially coordinating any surgical procedure. I perform procedures such as endotracheal intubations, to help in the breathing of sick newborns. I also provide umbilical catheters, chest tubes, percutaneous central catheters, and spinal taps. As part of the NYU Langone HospitalLong Island team, I work with experienced neonatologists, mid-level practitioners, residents, and nurses to care for babies 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. We have access to multiple subspecialists and perform all surgeries in our institution except for complex cardiac surgeries. We also have one of the best survival rates for our babies compared to national standards. I believe that medicine and treatment options are evolving every day. In the past, it was difficult for a 28-week-old infant to survive, but now, we are able to provide care to premature infants who are born even earlier. What is not medically possible today will most likely be achieved in the near future. I am the leader of our neonatal simulation program and I initiated a curriculum that teaches residents and students resuscitation skills in the delivery room. Additionally, I am the regional neonatal resuscitation instructor and certify all pediatric interns, residents, and practitioners annually. In my research, I study the effect of storage and maturity on breast milks cytokine levels. I have presented several abstracts pertaining to my research at regional and national conferences. In addition, I lead quality improvement projects on maintaining thermoregulation in newborns. I am a fellow of the American Academy of Pediatrics and member of the Society for Simulation in Healthcare. Credentials Positions Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Pediatrics at NYU Long Island School of Medicine Board Certifications American Board of Pediatrics (Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine), 2010 American Board of Pediatrics - Pediatrics, 2005 Education and Training Fellowship, New York Medical College, Neonatal/Perinatal, 2008 Residency, Maimonides Medcial Center, Pediatrics, 2005 Is this your profile? Edit profile Insurance Plans Accepted This provider accepts the following insurance plans. Aetna Aetna HMO Aetna Indemnity Aetna Medicare Aetna POS Aetna PPO/EPO Cigna Cigna EPO/POS Cigna PPO Emblem Emblem Select Care Exchange Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield HealthPlus Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield HealthPlus Essential Fidelis Fidelis Child Health Fidelis Essential Fidelis Exchange Fidelis Medicaid Fidelis Medicare GHI GHI CBP GHI HMO HIP HIP Access I HIP Access II HIP Child Health HIP EPO/PPO HIP Essential HIP HMO HIP Medicaid HIP Medicare HIP POS HealthSmart HealthSmart (WTC) Healthfirst Healthfirst Healthfirst Essential Humana Humana Medicare Local 1199 Local 1199 PPO MagnaCare MagnaCare PPO Medicaid NY Medicaid Medicare Medicare MultiPlan/PHCS MultiPlan/PHCS PPO NYS Health Insurance Plan The Empire Plan Oxford Oxford Freedom Oxford Liberty Oxford Medicare Railroad Medicare Railroad Medicare Three Rivers Three Rivers Provider Network Tricare Tricare UHC UnitedHealthcare EPO UnitedHealthcare HMO UnitedHealthcare Medicare UnitedHealthcare POS UnitedHealthcare PPO UnitedHealthcare Top Tier VNS Visiting Nurse Service (VNS) Medicare View All Accepted Plans This list of insurances changes regularly, and insurance plans listed may not be accepted at all office locations for this provider. Before your appointment, please confirm with your insurance company that this provider accepts your insurance. Locations and Appointments NYU Langone Pediatric Associates - Mineola 259 1st Street Mineola, NY 11501 Phone 516-663-3853 View Map NYU Langone Pediatric Associates - Mineola 120 Mineola Boulevard, Suite 210 Mineola, NY 11501 Phone 516-663-4600 View Map Clinical Trials and Research Studies WUH: Effect of storage on breast milk cytokines in premature infants in the first 4 weeks after birth Learn More View All Research Studies (1) Publications A Quality Improvement Intervention to Decrease Hypothermia in the Delivery Room Using a Checklist Vinci, Alexandra; Islam, Shahidul; Quintos-Alegheband, Lyn; Hanna, Nazeeh; Nayak, Amrita Pediatric quality & safety. 2018 Nov-Dec; 3(6):e125 Should gentamicin trough levels be routinely obtained in term neonates? Ibrahim, J; Maffei, D; El-Chaar, G; Islam, S; Ponnaiya, S; Nayak, A; Rosenfeld, W; Hanna, N Journal of perinatology. 2016 11 ; 36(11):962-965 A Quality Improvement Initiative to Improve Perioperative Hypothermia Rates in the NICU Utilizing Checklists Hanna, Morcos; Htun, Zeyar; Islam, Shahidul; Hanna, Nazeeh; Kothari, Ulka; Nayak, Amrita Pediatric quality & safety. 2020 Sep-Oct; 5(5):e367 Read All Publications (5) 