 About Me Credentials Insurance Locations Research Publications About Me Conditions and Treatments For Adults Conditions retinoblastoma intraocular melanoma squamous cell cancer Treatments eye surgery excision of melanoma View All Conditions and Treatments View All Conditions and Treatments Learn more about conditions we treat at NYU Langone: Basal & Squamous Cell Skin Cancers in Adults Credentials Positions Clinical Professor, Department of Ophthalmology at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Board Certifications American Board of Ophthalmology - Ophthalmology, 1990 Education and Training Fellowship, North Shore University Hospital - Manhasset, Ocular Oncology, 1987 Residency, Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital, Ophthalmology, 1986 MD from Tulane University, 1982 Is this your profile? Edit profile Insurance Plans Accepted This provider accepts the following insurance plans. Medicare This list of insurances changes regularly, and insurance plans listed may not be accepted at all office locations for this provider. Before your appointment, please confirm with your insurance company that this provider accepts your insurance. Locations and Appointments The New York Eye Cancer Center 115 East 61st Street New York, NY 10065 Phone 212-832-8170 View Map Research My Research Interests radiation, ultrasound imaging, anti-VEGF therapy, small incision biopsy Read less Research Summary I started my research career as a Tulane University medical student. Work there led me to co-invent a microwave applicator for intraocular hyperthermia along with Robert Paglione from the RCA Corporation. Taking this work from the bench, at Brookhaven National Laboratory and Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, to bedside at North ShoreWeill Cornell, I found it could save sight and life. Subsequent highlights of my innovations include the discovery of palladium-103 plaque therapy for intraocular tumors, topical chemotherapy (mitomycin and interferon) eye drops for conjunctival melanoma, and new eye and vision sparing radiation methods and devices for cancers located anteriorly in the iris or posteriorly around the optic nerve. In 2007, I first reported anti-VEGF treatment to suppress radiation retinopathy and anterior optic neuropathy. This method is widely used, saving vision around the world. In terms of new methods of diagnosis, my published research efforts include 3D-ultrasound techniques to reveal previously obscure areas of the eye, optic nerve, and orbit. Out of necessity, I established normative high frequency ultrasound measurements for the iris and ciliary body. Other contributions were typically published to support my fellows and residents. We have published on whole-body PET-CT to diagnose and stage ocular melanoma, orbital lymphoma, sebaceous carcinoma, and conjunctival melanoma as well as evaluated SUV as a biomarker for choroidal melanoma metastasis. In other works, we showed that PET-CT can be used to discover and stage systemic metastasis to the eye, reveal oculosystemic sarcoidosis, and evaluate choroidal melanoma response to ophthalmic radiation therapy. Separately, I recognized that using available small-gauge aspiration cutter technology would allow for safer, self-sealing micro-incisional biopsies. This clinical research generated publications on the Finger Iridectomy Technique (FIT) as well as the Finger Aspiration Cutter Technique (FACT) for orbital tumors. Read more Research Interests Timeline These focus areas and their associated publications are derived from PubMed and the MeSH term library. * represents one publication Loading... Skip timeline Melanoma Choroid Neoplasms Brachytherapy Conjunctival Neoplasms Uveal Neoplasms 1984 2014 2009 2004 1999 1994 1989 1984 2020 *Due to PubMed processing times, the most recent publications may not be reflected in the timeline. Publications Intraocular Leiomyoma: Current Concepts Tomar, Ankit Singh; Finger, Paul T; Iacob, Codrin Survey of ophthalmology. 2020 Jul - Aug; 65(4):421-437 The COMS Randomized Trial of Iodine 125 Brachytherapy for Choroidal Melanoma: IV. Local Treatment Failure and Enucleation in the First 5 Years after Brachytherapy. COMS Report No. 19 Jampol, Lee M; Moy, Claudia S; Murray, Timothy G; Reynolds, Sandra M; Albert, Daniel M; Schachat, Andrew P; Diddie, Kenneth R; Engstrom, Robert E ; Finger, Paul T; Hovland, Kenneth R; Joffe, Leonard; Olsen, Karl R; Wells, Craig G Ophthalmology. 2020 Apr ; 127(4S):S148-S157 A Multicenter, International Collaborative Study for AJCC-Staging of Retinoblastoma: Metastasis-Associated Mortality Tomar, Ankit Singh; Finger, Paul T; Gallie, Brenda; Mallipatna, Ashwin; Kivel, Tero T; Zhang, Chengyue; Zhao, Junyang; Wilson, Matthew W; Kim, Jonathan ; Khetan, Vikas; Ganesan, Suganeswari; Yarovoy, Andrey; Yarovaya, Vera; Kotova, Elena; Yousef, Yacoub A; Nummi, Kalle; Ushakova, Tatiana L; Yugay, Olga V; Polyakov, Vladimir G; Ramirez-Ortiz, Marco A; Esparza-Aguiar, Elizabeth; Chantada, Guillermo; Schaiquevich, Paula; Fandino, Adriana; Yam, Jason C; Lau, Winnie W; Lam, Carol P; Sharwood, Phillipa; Moorthy, Sonia; Long, Quah Boon; Essuman, Vera Adobea; Renner, Lorna A; Catal, Jaume; Correa-Llano, Genoveva Ophthalmology. 2020 Dec ; 127(12):1719-1732 Read All Publications (240) 