 Ingemar J. Cox Homepage Search Main menu Skip to primary content Skip to secondary content Home Contact details Patents Publications Downloads Microsoft Research sponsored Ph.D. in Estimating the credibility of health information on the Web Posted on April 4, 2016 by ingemarcox A Microsoft Research sponsored Ph.D. scholarship is available to support a Ph.D. thesis on the topic of Estimating the credibility of health information on the Web. The candidate must be an EU citizen to qualify for the studentship. The candidate should have a B.Sc. and preferably an M.Sc. in Computer Science or a closely related subject, and knowledge of machine learning. The Ph.D. student will be jointly supervised by myself (Ingemar Cox) at UCL and Yoram Bacharach at Microsoft Research in Cambridge, UK. The student willbe based at UCL but periods of study at MSR Cambridge are expected. Interested candidates should send email to me at UCL. Posted in Uncategorized EPSRC IRC in Early Warning Sensing Systems for Infectious Diseases. Posted on May 14, 2013 by ingemarcox Early-warning sensor systems that can test and track serious infectious diseases such as major flu epidemics, MRSA and HIV using mobile phones and the internet are being developed by a major new Interdisciplinary Research Collaboration (IRC) led by UCL (University College London). The new 11 million IRC, funded by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (total investment 16 million), will develop mobile health technologies that allow doctors to diagnose and track diseases much earlier than ever before. The IRC brings together scientists, engineers and clinicians from UCL, Imperial College, the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and Newcastle University, together with NHS stakeholders UCL Partners, Newcastle Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, the UCLH and Newcastle NIHR Biomedical Research Centres, Public Health England and industry partners OJ-Bio, Microsoft, Cambridge Life Sciences, Mologic, O 2 Health, Zurich Instruments, XFAB and Cepheid. The IRC will pioneer low cost, easy to use mobile phone-connected diagnostic tests based on advances in nanotechnology for use in GP surgeries, pharmacies, elderly care homes, developing countries and at home. The mobile tests aim to identify diseases with high sensitivity and specificity and give results within minutes from just a pin-prick of blood or a simple swab. Rapidly transmitting results into secure healthcare systems will alert doctors to potentially serious outbreaks with geographically linked information. The UCL team are already developing a smart-phone-connected prototype test for HIV with industry partners OJ-Bio. The IRC will also track reported symptoms of infection by searching millions of internet sources including media reports, search engine queries (e.g. Google Trends and Bing) and social networking sites (e.g. Facebook and Twitter) to identify outbreaks even before people attend clinics or from parts of the world that lack the resources for traditional public health surveillance. Worldwide, there are an estimated 6.8 billion mobile phone subscriptions, 2.7 billion people on-line and 1 billion social network users, representing a massive opportunity to widen access to tests and track emerging disease outbreaks. Dr Rachel McKendry, from the London Centre for Nanotechnology UCL, who will lead the new centre, said: A new generation of diagnostic test and tracking systems could save millions of people from deadly diseases such as new strains of influenza, HIV and MRSA. The revolution in mobile communication, nanotechnology, genomics, and big data analysis offers tremendous opportunities to actively manage outbreaks and ultimately prevent infectious diseases. Widening access to tests in community settings will empower patients to gain faster access to treatment, reduce the inappropriate use of antibiotics and protect the wider public. The new centre will bring critical mass and multidisciplinary expertise in biomarker discovery (pathogen-specific fingerprints) which require minimal sample processing steps, nano-enabled sensors, temperature-stable biomimetic capture coatings, nanoparticles, microelectronics, microfluidics, wireless networks, data mining, data security and health economics. Early diagnosis plays a vital role in the treatment, care and prevention of infectious diseases. However, worldwide, many infections remain undiagnosed and untreated or are diagnosed at the late stage due to poor diagnostic tools. The result is on-going transmission of serious infections and delays in the identification of emerging threats. Professor Deenan Pillay, Infectious Diseases Programme Director for the NIHR UCL Hospitals Biomedical Research Centre, and UCL Partners, Head of Department of Infection, UCL, and clinical lead in the new centre said: Infectious diseases remain among the top killers in the world. Newly emerging pandemics of, influenza, for example, provide major threats, and the spread of infections within hospitals and communities often undermines our effective management of patients, whatever their health problems. One of the major limitations to effective prevention, treatment and cure is the lack of appropriate tools to diagnose infections in the first place and monitor effective treatment. To meet the needs of end users, the team will work closely with leading NHS clinicians from UCL Partners and Newcastle NHS Trusts, NIHR Biomedical Research Centres, Public Health England, patient groups and the public to address the wider issues of increased testing, care pathways and data security. The centre also benefits from links to more than 100 countries in Africa, Asia and South America via the LSHTM International Diagnostics Centre led by Professor Rosanna Peeling. Professor Calum McNeil, lead investigator from the Newcastle University said, For me the EPSRC IRC is a long-term ambition come true. It presents a fantastic opportunity to work with world-leaders in nanotechnology, engineering, bioinformatics and communications technologies in order to provide real-time predictive, preventive, point-of-care healthcare provision a hugely exciting undertaking. Professor Molly Stevens from Imperial College London added, We are extremely excited about integrating our expertise in biosensing with such an excellent consortium to enable maximum impact in the fight against infectious diseases. EPSRC IRC in Early Warning Sensing Systems for Infectious Diseases. Team: UCL Dr Rachel McKendry, Prof. Deenan Pillay, Prof. Ingemar Cox, Prof. Anne Johnson, Prof. Robin Weiss, Prof. Vince Emery (now Surrey), Prof. Andreas Demosthenous, Prof. Quentin Pankhurst; LSHTM Prof. Rosanna Peeling; Imperial College Prof. Molly Stevens; Newcastle University Prof. Calum McNeil, Dr Neil Keegan, Prof. Colin Harwood, Prof. Anil Wipat, Dr Philip Manning; Dr John Hedley; Public Health England: Prof. Mike Catchpole; Prof. Richard Pebody. Posted in Uncategorized PassiveSystems wins UCLs Knowledge Transfer Business of the Year Award Posted on May 14, 2013 by ingemarcox We are pleased to announce that PassiveSystems has been awardKnowledge Transfer Business of the Year Award. PassivSystems Knowledge Transfer Partnership grants include work on recommender systems supported by Jun Wang and Ingemar J. Cox. Posted in Uncategorized ECIR 2013 Posted on March 11, 2013 by ingemarcox Ranked Accuracy and Unstructured DistributedSearch, S. Richardson and I. J. Cox, ECIR 2013. Posted in Uncategorized FindZebra: A search engine for rare diseases Posted on March 11, 2013 by ingemarcox FindZebra: A search engine for rare diseases, Radu Dragusin , Paula Petcu , Christina Lioma a , Birger Larsen , Henrik L. Jrgensen e , Ingemar J. Cox, Lars Kai Hansen , Peter Ingwersen , Ole Winther , Int. J. of Medical Informatics, 2013 Posted in Uncategorized Hersh Asthana wins Best Paper Prize at Large-Scale Distributed Systems for Information Retrieval Workshop Posted on March 11, 2013 by ingemarcox Congratulations to Hersh Asthana whose paper entitled Retrieval of Highly Dynamic Information in an Unstructured Peer-to-Peer Network was awarded Best Paper Prize at the Large-Scale and Distributed Systems for Information Retrieval Workshop in Rome, on 5th February 2013. Posted in news WWW 2012 Posted on September 11, 2012 by ingemarcox PACnPost: A Framework for a Micro-Blogging Social Network in an Unstructured P2P Network, H. Asthana and I. J. Cox, WWW 2012. pdf Posted in Uncategorized ECIR 2012 Posted on August 1, 2012 by ingemarcox On Aggregating Labels from Multiple Crowd Workers to Infer Relevance of Documents, M. Hosseini, I. J. Cox, N. Milic-Frayling, G. Kazai, V. Vinay, ECIR 2012 Posted in news SIGIR 2012 paper Posted on June 19, 2012 by ingemarcox An Uncertainty-aware Query Selection Model for Evaluation of IR Systems, M. Hosseini, I. J. Cox, N. Milic-Frayling, M. Shokouhi, E. Yilmaz, SIGIR 2012. Posted in news Doctoral Training Centre on Security and Crime Science at UCL Posted on April 10, 2012 by ingemarcox UCL SECReT is the new 17m national centre for PhD training in security and crime science at University College London, the first centre of its kind in Europe. The Centre offers the most comprehensive integrated PhD programme for students wishing to pursue multidisciplinary security or crime-related research. Applications are now open 11 fully-funded EPSRC scholarship available. Please see http://www.ucl.ac.uk/secret Posted in news | Tagged epsrc , phd , secret , security Recent Posts Microsoft Research sponsored Ph.D. in Estimating the credibility of health information on the Web EPSRC IRC in Early Warning Sensing Systems for Infectious Diseases. PassiveSystems wins UCLs Knowledge Transfer Business of the Year Award ECIR 2013 FindZebra: A search engine for rare diseases Recent Comments Archives April 2016 May 2013 March 2013 September 2012 August 2012 June 2012 April 2012 Categories news Uncategorized Proudly powered by WordPress 
