 Home Publications Bio Contact George Danezis Professor of Security and Privacy Engineering Older photos: Address: University College London Dept. of Computer Science Gower Street London WC1E 6BT United Kingdom Skype: george_danezis Email: g.danezis at ucl.ac.uk Office: MPEB 4.13 I am a Professor of Security and Privacy Engineering at the Information Security Group of the Computer Science department at University College London . I am also a faculty fellow at the Turing Institute . From Sept. 2018 I am part time at UCL to focus on a number of commercialization & industrial activities: I am a Research Scientist at the Blockchain team of Facebook based in London. I advise Vega Protocol , NYM Technologies , Privitar , and Sperical Defence on all matters related to privacy engineering, distributed systems security and cybersecurity. I was a co-founder, and chief scientist at chainspace.io , which builds a scalable smart contract platform. This webpage will be kept up to date in relation to my research work. Research interests : I research computer security , privacy , and in particular anonymous communications , traffic analysis , statistical inference , smart metering and peer-to-peer security . I have a special interest in the application of modern machine learning to security problems, as well as distributed ledgers. You can see my full CV and a short bio . Group : Within the Information Security group , I currently supervise Jamie Hayes , Raphael Toledo , Ania Piotrowska , Marios Isaakidis , Vasilis Mavroudis , Mustafa Al-Bassam , Alberto Sonnino and Maria Schett . Sebastian Meiser is currently a post-doctoral researcher working with me. Previously, Shehar Bano was a member of my team. Research positions & PhD supervision : I am an active researcher in computer security and privacy , and always on the lookout for talented post-doctoral researchers and doctoral (PhD) students to join our group at UCL . Interested candidates should email me with a copy of their Curriculum Vitae and a short research statement . Teaching, thesis and project supervision : I taught two classes for the UCL MSc in Information Security , namely Computer Security I (GA01) and one of the few Privacy Enhancing Technologies (GA17) courses in the world. I am keen to supervise undergraduate or MSc projects on security and privacy, and have some project ideas . My office hours relating to taught courses are integrated within the lecture series (as a fourth optional hour-long slot), and I am available for one-on-one meetings with students and tutees, usually on Tuesdays 11-12 in term time, or as arranged by email. Funding and other activities : My research has been funded by the EU ( Panoramix , Nextleap , Decode ), the EPSRC, MSR, ACE (GCHQ) and UCL. I sit on the board of the PET Symposium , and the ACM CCS and IH&MMS steering committees. I am a fellow of the Cambridge Centre for Science and Policy , and on the advisory board of the Simply Secure Project , the Open Rights Group and before Privacy International . I am open to short-term consultancy engagements around computer security and privacy research, or design reviews, through UCL Consultants . Publications All Privacy Anonymity Machine Learning Peer-to-peer & Blockchains Crypto Policy & Econ Social Applications Tor Location Identity Security Data Recent or forthcoming New! Coconut: Threshold Issuance Selective Disclosure Credentials with Applications to Distributed Ledgers . Alberto Sonnino, Mustafa Al-Bassam, Shehar Bano, George Danezis: NDSS 2019. ClaimChain: Improving the Security and Privacy of In-band Key Distribution for Messaging . Bogdan Kulynych, Wouter Lueks, Marios Isaakidis, George Danezis, and Carmela Troncoso. WPES 2018. Scoping the Cyber Security Body of Knowledge . Awais Rashid, George Danezis, Howard Chivers, Emil Lupu, Andrew Martin, Makayla Lewis, Claudia Peersman. IEEE Security & Privacy 16(3): 96-102 (2018). Learning Universal Adversarial Perturbations with Generative Models . Jamie Hayes, George Danezis. EuroS&P 2018. TARANET: Traffic-Analysis Resistant Anonymity at the NETwork layer . Chen Chen, Daniele E Asoni, Adrian Perrig, David Barrera, George Danezis, Carmela Troncoso. IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy Workshops 2018: 43-49. Chainspace: A Sharded Smart Contracts Platform . Mustafa Al-Bassam, Alberto Sonnino, Shehar Bano, Dave Hrycyszyn and George Danezis. NDSS 2018. The Road to Scalable Blockchain Designs . Shehar Bano, Mustafa Al-Bassam, and George Danezis. USENIX login mag. 2018. Privacy-preserving smart metering revisited . Alfredo Rial, Markulf Kohlweiss and George Danezis. M. Int. J. Inf. Secur. (2018). Generating steganographic images via adversarial training . Jamie Hayes, George Danezis. NIPS 2017. A Touch of Evil: High-Assurance Cryptographic Hardware from Untrusted Components . Vasilios Mavroudis, Andrea Cerulli, Petr Svenda, Dan Cvrcek, Dusan Klinec and George Danezis. ACM CCS 2017. The Loopix Anonymity System . Ania M. Piotrowska, Jamie Hayes, Tariq Elahi, Sebastian Meiser and George Danezis. USENIX Security Symposium 2017. AnNotify: A Private Notification Service . Ania Piotrowska, Jamie Hayes, Nethanel Gelernter, George Danezis and Amir Herzberg. WPES 2017. Mix-ORAM: Using delegate shuffles . Raphael R. Toledo, George Danezis and Isao Echizen. WPES 2017. Systematizing Decentralization and Privacy: Lessons from 15 years of research and deployments . Carmela Troncoso, George Danezis, Marios Isaakidis and Harry Halpin. PoPETs 2017 (4):307329. LiLAC: Lightweight Low-Latency Anonymous Chat . J. P. Podolanko, R. Pobala, H. Mucklai, G. Danezis and M. Wright. Privacy-Aware Computing (IEEE PAC 2017). Published UnlimitID: Privacy-Preserving Federated Identity Management using Algebraic MACs . Marios Isaakidis, Harry Halpin and George Danezis. Short Paper in WPES 2016. TASP: Towards Anonymity Sets that Persist . Jamie Hayes, Carmela Troncoso and George Danezis. Short Paper in WPES 2016. k-fingerprinting: a Robust Scalable Website Fingerprinting Technique. Jamie Hayes and George Danezis. USENIX Security 2016. Lower-Cost epsilon-Private Information Retrieval . Raphael R. Toledo, George Danezis and Ian Goldberg . Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies 2016. Centrally Banked Cryptocurrencies . George Danezis and Sarah Meiklejohn. ISoc NDSS 2016, San Diego 2016. Efficient Private Statistics with Succinct Sketches Luca Melis, George Danezis and Emiliano De Cristofaro. ISoc NDSS 2016, San Diego 2016. HORNET: High-speed Onion Routing at the Network Layer. Chen Chen, Daniele Enrico Asoni, David Barrera, George Danezis, Adrian Perrig. ACM CCS 2015, Denver 2015. DP5: A Private Presence Service . Nikita Borisov, George Danezis, and Ian Goldberg. Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies 2015. Toward Mending Two Nation-Scale Brokered Identification Systems . Lus T. A. N. Brando, Nicolas Christin, George Danezis, and Anonymous. Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies 2015. Guard Sets for Onion Routing . Jamie Hayes and George Danezis. Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies 2015. 2010 - 2015 An Automated Social Graph De-anonymization Technique. Kumar Sharad and George Danezis. ACM WPES 2014: Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic Society, Arizona 2014. PrivEx: Private Collection of Traffic Statistics for Anonymous Communication Networks. Tariq Elahi, George Danezis and Ian Goldberg. ACM CCS 2014, Arizona 2014. Square Span Programs with Applications to Succinct NIZK Arguments. George Danezis, Cedric Fournet, Jens Groth and Markulf Kohlweiss. Asiacrypt 2014. Fast and Private Genomic Testing for Disease Susceptibility George Danezis and Emiliano De Cristofaro. ACM WPES 2014: Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic Society, Arizona 2014. Bayesian Inference of Accurate Population Sizes and FRET Efficiencies from Single Diffusing Biomolecules. . RR Murphy, G Danezis, MH Horrocks, SE Jackson, D Klenerman. Anal Chem (2014) 86, 140818151029005. You Cannot Hide for Long: De-Anonymization of Real-World Dynamic Behaviour . George Danezis and Carmela Troncoso. ACM WPES 2013: Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic Society 2013. Smart Meter Aggregation via Secret-Sharing . George Danezis, Cedric Fournet, Markulf Kohlweiss and Santiago Zanella-Beguelin. ACM SEGS 2013: Smart Energy Grid Security Workshop, 2013. Pinocchio Coin: Building Zerocoin from a Succinct Pairing-based Proof System . George Danezis, Cedric Fournet, Markulf Kohlweiss and Bryan Parno. PETShop: Workshop on Language Support for Privacy Enhancing Technologies, 2013. ZQL: A Compiler for Privacy-Preserving Data Processing . Cedric Fournet, Markulf Kohlweiss, George Danezis and Zhengqin Luo. USENIX Security Symposium 2013. Verified Computational Differential Privacy with Applications to Smart Metering Gilles Barthe, George Danezis, Benjamin Gregoire, Cesar Kunz, and Santiago Zanella-Beguelin. IEEE Computer Security Foundations Symposium, IEEE, 2013 Private Client-Side Profiling with Random Forests and Hidden Markov Models . George Danezis, Markulf Kohlweiss, Benjamin Livshits, Alfredo Rial. Privacy Enhancing Technologies 2012 The Dangers of Composing Anonymity Channels . George Danezis and Emilia Kasper. Information Hiding Conference (IH 2012) Designing Privacy-preserving Smart Meters with Low-cost Microcontrollers . Andres Molina-Markham, George Danezis, Kevin Fu, Prashant Shenoy and David Irwin. Financial Cryptography and Data Security 2012. Privacy-Preserving Smart Metering . Alfredo Rial and George Danezis. ACM Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic Society (WPES 2011) Towards Ensuring Client-Side Computational Integrity (Position Paper) . George Danezis and Benjamin Livshits. ACM Cloud Computing Security Workshop (CCSW 2011) Privacy-friendly Aggregation for the Smart-grid . Klaus Kursawe, George Danezis and Markulf Kohlweiss. Privacy Enhancing Technologies 2011 Quantifying Location Privacy: The Case of Sporadic Location Exposure . Reza Shokri and George Theodorakopoulos, George Danezis, and Jean-Pierre Hubaux and Jean-Yves Le Boudec. Privacy Enhancing Technologies 2011 Differentially Private Billing with Rebates . Markulf Kohlweiss, George Danezis, Alfredo Rial. Information Hiding 2011 2005 - 2010 Drac: An Architecture for Anonymous Low-Volume Communications . George Danezis, Claudia Diaz, Carmela Troncoso, Ben laurie. Privacy Enhancing Technologies (PET2010) How to share your favourite search results while preserving privacy and quality . George Danezis, Tuomas Aura, Shuo Chen, and Emre Kiciman. Privacy Enhancing Technologies (PET2010) Inferring Privacy policies for Social network Services . George Danezis. AISec 2009. The Bayesian Traffic Analysis of Mix networks . Carmela Troncoso and George Danezis. ACM CCS 2009. The wisdom of Crowds: attacks and optimal constructions George Danezis, Claudia Diaz, Emilia Kasper, and Carmela Troncoso. ESORICS 2009. Vida: How to use Bayesian inference to de-anonymize persistent communications . George Danezis and Carmela Troncoso. Privacy Enhancing Technologies Symposium (PETS 2009) Prying Data out of a Social Network . Joseph Bonneau, Jonathan Anderson and George Danezis. International Conference on Social Network Analysis and Mining (ASONAM 2009) The least privacy-damaging centralised traffic data retention architecture (Extended abstract). George Danezis. Cambridge Security Protocols Worekshop (SPW 2009). Sphinx: A Compact and Provably Secure Mix Format . George Danezis and Ian Goldberg. IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy 2009. Privacy-Preserving 802.11 Access-Point Discovery . Janne Lindqvist, Tuomas Aura, George Danezis, Teemu Koponen, Annu Myllyniemi, Jussi Mki and Michael Roe. ACM Conference on Wireless Network Security (WiSec'09) SybilInfer: Detecting Sybil Nodes using Social Networks . George Danezis and Prateek Mittal. Network & Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS 2009) Identification via Location-Profiling in GSM Networks . Yoni De Mulder, George Danezis, Lejla Batina and Bart Preneel. Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic Society (WPES 2008) Bridging and Fingerprinting: Epistemic Attacks on Route Selection . George Danezis and Paul Syverson. Privacy Enhancing Technologies Symposium (PETS 2008) How to Bypass Two Anonymity Revocation Schemes . George Danezis and Len Sassaman. Privacy Enhancing Technologies Symposium (PETS 2008) Covert Communications Despite Traffic Data Retention. George Danezis. Cambridge Security Protocols Workshop (SPW 2008). Fighting the Good Internet War . Daniel Cvrcek and George Danezis. Cambridge Security Protocols Workshop (SPW 2008). Denial of Service or Denial of Security? How Attacks on Reliability can Compromise Anonymity . Nikita Borisov, George Danezis, Prateek Mittal and Parisa Tabriz. ACM CCS 2007. PriPAYD: Privacy Friendly Pay-As-You-Drive Insurance . B. Preneel, C. Troncoso, G. Danezis, and E. Kosta. ACM Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic Society 2007 Does additional information always reduce anonymity? . C. Diaz, C. Troncoso, and G. Danezis. ACM Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic Society 2007. Efficient Negative Databases from Cryptographic Hash Functions . G. Danezis, C. Diaz, S. Faust, E. Ksper, B. Preneel, and C. Troncoso. 10th Information Security Conference (ISC 2007). Two-sided Statistical Disclosure Attack . George Danezis, Claudia Diaz and Carmela Troncoso. PET 2007. Private Yet Abuse Resistant Open Publishing . George Danezis and Ben Laurie. XVth Security Protocols Workshop (2007) Space-Efficient Private Search with Applications to Rateless Codes . George Danezis and Claudia Diaz. Financial Cryptoraphy 2007. Study on the Price of Privacy . Dan Cvrcek, Marek Kumpost, Vashek Matyas and George Danezis. ACM WPES 2006. A Pact with the Devil . Mike Bond and George Danezis. New Security Paradigms Workshop 2006, Dagstuhl, Germany. Route Fingerprinting in Anonymous Communications . George Danezis and Richard Clayton. 6th IEEE International Conference on Peer-to-Peer Computing, Cambridge 2006. Breaking Four Mix-related Schemes Based on Universal Re-encryption . George Danezis. Information Security Conference 2006. The Economics of Mass Surveillance and the Questionable Value of Anonymous Communications . George Danezis, Bettina Wittneben. WEIS 2006. The Value of Location Information: A European-Wide Study . Dan Cvrcek, Marek Kumpost, Vashek Matyas and George Danezis. Cambridge Security Protocols Workshop 2006. Sybil-resistant DHT routing . George Danezis, Chris Lesniewski-Laas, M. Frans Kaashoek and Ross Anderson. ESORICS 2005. Compulsion Resistant Anonymous Communications . George Danezis and Jolyon Clulow. 7th Information Hiding Workshop, Barcelona, Spain. 2000 - 2005 How Much is Location Privacy Worth? . George Danezis, Stephen Lewis and Ross Anderson. Fourth Workshop on the Economics of Information Security (WEIS 2005). Low-cost Traffic Analysis of Tor. Steven J. Murdoch and George Danezis. 2005 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, May 8-11, 2005, Oakland, California, USA. The Dining Freemasons (Security Protocols for Secret Societies) . Mike Bond and George Danezis. Thirteenth International Workshop on Security Protocols 2005. The economics of resisting censorship . George Danezis, Ross Anderson. Security & Privacy Magazine, IEEE, Volume: 3, Issue: 1, Year: Jan.-Feb. 2005, Page(s): 45- 50. Minx: A Simple and Efficient Anonymous Packet Format George Danezis and Ben Laurie. WPES 2004. Mix Cascades vs. Peer-to-Peer: Is One Concept Superior? . Rainer Bohme, George Danezis, Claudia Diaz, Stefan Kopsell, and Andreas Pfitzmann. Privacy Enhancing Technologies Workshop 2004 The Traffic Analysis of Continuous-Time Mixes. George Danezis. Privacy Enhancing Technologies Workshop 2004. The Economics of Censorship Resistance . George Danezis, Ross Anderson. Worshop on Economics and Information Security 2004. Statistical Disclosure or Intersection Attacks on Anonymity Systems . George Danezis, Andrei Serjantov. Information Hiding 2004. Heartbeat Traffic to Counter (n-1) Attacks . George Danezis, Len Sassaman. WPES'03. The Statistical Disclosure Attack . George Danezis. Sec2003 Mixminion: Design of a Type III Anonymous Remailer . George Danezis, Roger Dingledine, Nick Mathewson. IEEE Security & Privacy 2003. Mix-networks with Restricted Routes George Danezis. PET 2003. Forward Secure Mixes . George Danezis. NORDSEC 2002. Chaffinch: Confidentiality in the Face of Legal Threats . Richard Clayton, George Danezis. Information Hiding 2002 Towards an Information Theoretic Metric for Anonymity . Andrei Serjantov, George Danezis. Privacy Enhancing Technologies 2002. Award at PET2003 . Real World Patterns of Failure in Anonymity Systems . Richard Clayton, George Danezis, Markus G. Kuhn. Information Hiding 2001: 230-244. Unpublished manuscripts / lecture notes / invited talks / hard science A Public Comment on NCCoE's White Paper on Privacy-Enhancing Identity Brokers . Lus T. A. N. Brando, Nicolas Christin, George Danezis. arXiv:1611.02968 Eclipse and Re-Emergence of Anonymous P2P Storage Network Overlay Services . Marios Isaakidis and George Danezis. HotPETs 2016. Introducing Traffic Analysis: Attacks, Defences and Public Policy Issues... (Invited Talk). George Danezis. Santa's Crypto Get-together. Prague, December 2005. Also at 23C3, Berlin . Traffic Analysis of the HTTP Protocol over TLS. George Danezis. Driftware online publication. A pact with the Devil . Mike Bond, George Danezis. Technical report UCAM-CL-TR-666, University of Cambridge, Computer Laboratory, June 2006 Introducing Traffic Analysis . George Danezis and Richard Clayton. Chapter in Digital privacy . Auerbach Publications, ISBN: 9781420052176. A survey of anonymous communication channels . George Danezis and Claudia Diaz. Microsoft Research Technical Report (MSR-TR-2008-35). January 2008. Measuring anonymity: a few thoughts and a differentially private bound . George Danezis. DIMACS Workshop on Measuring Anonymity, May 2013. Accurate Intramolecular Distances by Single Molecule Confocal Spectroscopy: A Monte Carlo Markov Chain Analysis of Fluorescence Data from Freely Diffusing Biomolecules . Rebecca R. Murphy, George Danezis, Sophie E. Jackson, David Klenerman. Biophysical Journal, Volume 104, Issue 2, Supplement 1, 29 January 2013, Pages 174a. Biographical details Before joining UCL I was a researcher at Microsoft Research Cambridge from 2007 to 2013. Between 2005 and 2007 I was a post-doctoral visiting fellow at Prof. Bart Preneel 's COSIC group at K.U.Leuven, Belgium. With Claudia Diaz we were coordinating the COSIC Privacy Group . Until 2005 I was a research assistant in the Security Group , of the Computer Laboratory of the University of Cambridge , working on anonymous communications, peer-to-peer networks and censorship resistance where I got my Ph.D under the supervision of Prof. Ross J. Anderson , in the security group . My doctoral thesis entitled Better Anonymous Communications and the associated technical report Designing and Attacking Anonymous Communication Systems (UCAM-CL-TR-594) are available. I received my B.A. (Hons) in Computer Science from Queens' College , where I am a foundation scholar. Social conspicuous chatter (blog) github (code) @GDanezis (twitter) LinkedIn (schmooze) Publications Google Scholar DBLP Research Gate UCL Iris Arxiv (hot!) Courses Computer Security I (GA01) Privacy Enhancing Technologies (GA17) 
