Charles M. Lieber was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in 1959. He attended Franklin and Marshall College for his undergraduate education and graduated with honors in Chemistry. After doctoral studies at Stanford University and postdoctoral research at the California Institute of Technology, he moved to the east coast in 1987 to assume the position of Assistant Professor of Chemistry at Columbia University. Here Lieber embarked upon a new research program addressing the synthesis and properties of low-dimensional materials. He moved to Harvard University in 1991 and now holds a joint appointment in the Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, as the Mark Hyman Professor of Chemistry, and the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. He has served as the Chair of the Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology since 2015. Lieber is Co-Editor of the journal Nano Letters, and serves on the Editorial and Advisory Boards of many science and technology journals. Lieber has published over 380 papers in peer-reviewed journals and is the principal inventor on more than 50 issued U.S. patents. Lieber has been active in commercializing nanotechnology, and founded the nanotechnology company Nanosys, Inc. in 2001 and the nanosensor company Vista Therapeutics in 2007.At Harvard, Lieber has pioneered the synthesis of a broad range of nanoscale materials, the characterization of the unique physical properties of these materials and the development of methods of hierarchical assembly of nanoscale wires, together with the demonstration of applications of these materials in areas ranging from electronics, computing, photonics, and energy science to biology and medicine.Over the past decade, the development of nanoelectronics-enabled cellular tools of increasing sophistication and power has become a central focus in Liebers laboratory. Examples of this work include integration of arrays of nanowire transistors with neurons at the scale that the brain is wired biologically, mapping functional activity in acute brain slices with high spatiotemporal resolution, and a 3D structure capable of interfacing with complex neural networks. Using macroporous 3D sensor arrays as tissue scaffolds to mimic the structure of natural tissue, he generated synthetic tissues that can be innervated in 3D. Liebers current work also focuses on integrating electronics in a non-invasive manner within the central nervous system. Most recently, he has demonstrated that this polymer-like mesh electronics can be injected by syringe to position devices in a chosen region of the brain. Chronic histology and multiplexed recording studies demonstrate absence of immune response and noninvasive integration of the injectable electronics with neuronal circuitry, resulting in recording stability on time scales of up to a year. The Lieber groups concept of and focus on seamless integration of electronics with the brain to serve as a therapeutic tools capable of treating neurological and neurodegenerative diseases, stroke and traumatic injury is drawing increasing attention from the scientific and medical communities.
