 UCL DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE Bioinformatics Group Professor David Jones Welcome to my home page at University College London . I am currently Professor of Bioinformatics and Head of the Bioinformatics Group in the Department of Computer Science. I am also Director of the Bloomsbury Centre for Bioinformatics , which is a joint Research Centre between UCL and Birkbeck College and which also provides bioinformatics training and support services to biomedical researchers. My appointment is held jointly with the Department of Structural and Molecular Biology , although all mail should be addressed to the Computer Science Dept. as shown below. Research interests My main research interests are in protein structure prediction and analysis, simulations of protein folding, Hidden Markov Model methods, transmembrane protein analysis, machine learning applications in bioinformatics, de novo protein design methodology, and genome analysis including the application of intelligent software agents. New areas of research include the use of high throughput computing and very large scale machine learning for bioinformatics applications, analysis and prediction of protein disorder, expression data analysis and the analysis and prediction of protein function and protein-protein interactions using deep learning techniques. Over the years I have authored a number of widely-used bioinformatics tools such as PSIPRED, GenTHREADER, MEMSAT and DISOPRED (see group pages for a full list with download links). I was also one of the founders of UCL "spin out" company Inpharmatica Ltd. The company, which at one point employed over 100 people in Central London, was bought by Galapagos NV in 2007. More on Inpharmatica here and here . Publications I'm pleased to be included in Clarivate's Highly Cited Researchers List list, which identifies the world's leading scientific researchers on the basis of the number of highly cited papers published between 2006 and 2016. This is a reflection not only of the hard work and scientific excellence of the students, postdocs and collaborators I've been fortunate to work with over this period, but also the high impact that bioinformatics research in general has had over the last 10-20 years. For more details on my lab's research output see below: Publication list, bibliometric data and preprints TEACHING I coordinate the Bioinformatics module (GI10) on the MSc in Computational Statistics and Machine Learning degree programme. I also contribute lectures to the 3rd year UG Bioinformatics module (BIOC3010) in the Dept. of Structural and Molecular Biology. EDITORIAL BOARDS I currently serve on the editorial boards of the following journals: Proteins: Structure, Function and Bioinformatics, Advances in Bioinformatics , BioData Mining and PLoS ONE . FUNDING We are grateful to the following organisations for financially supporting our research: BBSRC , The Wellcome Trust , Elsevier BV , EPSRC , MRC , The Royal Society , The European Commission , AstraZeneca , GlaxoSmithKline , Sun Microsystems . Links >> Bioinformatics Group Home Page >> Bloomsbury Centre for Bioinformatics (BCB) >> PSIPRED Server >> UCL Dept. of Computer Science >> Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology >> UCL Home Page Contact Details PLEASE NOTE that my lab and I are currently seconded to the Francis Crick Institute - see HERE for contact details. Prof. David T. Jones Department of Computer Science University College London Gower Street London WC1E 6BT United Kingdom. Tel: 020 7679 7982 (+44 20 7679 7982) FAX: 020 7387 1397 E-mail: d.t.jones@ucl.ac.uk Follow Me 
