 Dr. Dean Mohamedally Software Systems Engineering Group UCL Home Computer Science Software Systems Engineering People Dean Mohamedally Home Teaching Research Corporate Interests HTML5 FTW Dr. Dean Mohamedally Principal Teaching Fellow for Applied Software Engineering and Industry Projects Projects Director for the UCL Industry Exchange Network (UG/CS/SSE) Software Systems Engineering Group Technology Transfer and Apps Strategy for UCL Email: D.Mohamedally (at) cs.ucl.ac.uk Department of Computer Science University College London Gower Street London, WC1E 6BT United Kingdom My office hours are Wednesdays 1pm by appointment Office: Room 4.13a, MPEB "Hello world." I am the Principal Teaching Fellow for Applied Software Engineering and Industry Projects and a member of the Software Systems Engineering group at the Department of Computer Science, University College London. I am the Inventor and Creator, and one of the Projects Directors of the UCL IXN - Industry Exchange Network ( www.ixn.org.uk ), which I co-founded with Dr Graham Roberts and Geoff Hughes in 2011. As of 2019, we now have over 900 candidates in the Department of Computer Science, 470 of which are in course modules that involve applied and industry-oriented software engineering, but we cover a lot more. Please refer to our prospectus for students on all of our courses. Our IXN programme is centred around term-time teaching with students based in our labs at UCL, with all sectors of industry clients engaging with the students on Proof of Concepts (PoC). I cover the fields of Software Engineering and Systems Integration development on the IXN, but also align interests with our other UCL CS Projects Directors . Most recently, we have been reported in the NHS England Topol Review (2019) , and we have special interest groups of the IXN, such as for the NHS and Healthcare, and also for supporting Charities and Open Source Initiatives. I am a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy and Member of the British Computing Society. I am also the Projects Director for Apps Engineering for all of UCL's faculties, and together with UCL Legal and UCL Engineering we enable students to participate on intercollegiate and internal research projects as part of their respective courses. If other faculties want to contact me about apps project requirements they can get in touch with me or my colleague, Dr Yun Fu. A role I keep close attention to is on Technology Transfer (primarily to syllabus and learning domains) . Companies and research groups are welcome to contact me with regards to new technology platforms and deployment. I am an executive member of the Institute for Digital Health, Digital Humanities and a keen supporter of our VR group. My academic speciality is in Constructionism and Problem based learning within Computer Science education. My area of interest is on software construction best practices in Software Engineering and the application of Computer Science in general education. From this, I am currently looking at how curriculum design can improve with industry-led PoC initiatives and how to raise engagement with industry requirements on varying levels of CS classes. I am also interested in school-based learning mechanisms for problem based learning, constructionist reinforcement and student-learning techniques from algorithm approaches to larger solution modelling. Key links: UCL Computer Science's Industry Exchange Network (IXN) Students Abstracts Book 2018 UCL IXN Project Requests Form for Industry Partners 2019 (*updated*) NHS England Topol Review (2019) UCL Computer Science and Microsoft UK Joint White Paper 2017 UCL Computer Science's Student Showcase Video 2017 Department of Computer Science - University College London - Gower Street - London - WC1E 6BT - +44 (0)20 7679 7214 - Copyright 1998-2011 UCL Disclaimer | Accessibility | Privacy | UCL Search | UCL-CS Help 
