 Prof. David J. Pym UCL and the Alan Turing Institute, London Basics and Contacts Prof. David J. Pym, PhD (Edin), MA, ScD (Cantab), CMath FIMA, CITP FBCS Professor of Information, Logic, and Security at UCL , University of London Head of Programming Principles, Logic, and Verification ( PPLV ) Turing Fellow , The Alan Turing Institute University College London Department of Computer Science Gower Street London WC1E 6BT d.pym (at) ucl.ac.uk Assistant Julia Savage Email: j.savage (at) ucl.ac.uk Telephone: +44 (0)20 7679 0327 (direct); 30327 (internal) Brief Bio and Short CV I am a logician, mathematician, and computer scientist. My research is mainly in logic, where I work in pure logic, including - the proof theory and semantics of bunched logics, - proof-theoretic semantics, and - the proof theory and semantics of reductive logic (see, for example, Reductive Logic: Proof Theory, Semantics, and Control , by David Pym and Eike Ritter, Oxford Logic Guides and the EPSRC-funded project ReLiC ) and on developing logic-based methods as a mathematical modelling technology for reasoning about systems, security, and behaviour (see, for example, the EPSRC-funded project IRIS ). I am beginning to develop logic-based approaches to a semantic theory of information (in the philosophical spirit of situation theory). I also work in information security, where I work in security policy, security economics, and systems security modelling. My contributions have been mainly in the following areas: dependent type theory and logical frameworks, including proof theory, semantics, and unification algorithms; reductive logic and proof-search, including proof theory and semantics, for classical intuitionistic, and substructural logics; categorical models of the classical sequent calculus and its theory of reduction; the bunched logic BI and its relatives, including proof theory, semantics, algebraic theory, and computational interpretations, and their applications to program logics, including Separation Logic, and security; distributed systems modelling based on resource semantics and process algebra; modal and epistemic bunched logics and layered graph logics, with applications in access control; utility-theoretic concepts in distributed systems modelling and process algebra, with applications in systems security modelling; trust domains; information security economics; the philosophy and methodology of information security; public policy in information security, including information stewardship. I have broad experience of research, teaching, and management in leading universities and in industry. Trust me, I'm a logician. David's UCL CS Page Short CV Research Interests Recent and Selected Publications: Current drafts ( html version ) Logic and Systems Modelling ( html version ) Security and Policy ( html version ) Tools Older Publications Logic ( html version ) Other ( html version ) Books ( html version ) Research Grants EPSRC Programme Grant IRIS EPSRC Research Grant ReLiC Alan Turing Institute UCL PPLV UCL Information Security Teaching UCL Roles Editorial Roles Short CV News Lectures Conferences Film Other 
