 News | Group | Papers | Press | Projects | Talks | Teaching | Miscellanea Ilya Sergey Associate Professor (tenure track) at Yale-NUS College and NUS School of Computing Lead Language Designer at Zilliqa Postal Address: Yale-NUS College 28 College Avenue West #01-501, Singapore 138533 Office Location: #RC3-01-03E, Cendana College Office Phone: +65 6516 1903 Email: ilya.sergey@yale-nus.edu.sg Availability: Calendar (it takes a while to load) I do research in programming language theory, including, but not limited to types, semantics, software verification, and program synthesis. Lately, I have been mostly focusing on developing sound and scalable methodologies for building provably correct concurrent and distributed systems (with applications to blockchains and smart contracts ). I also designed and co-developed Scilla , a programming language for safe and secure smart contracts. For my work, I write a lot of mechanised proofs in Coq, as well as functional code in Scala, OCaml, and Haskell. Since November 2018, I am a tenure-track Associate Professor at Yale-NUS College (Singapore), holding a joint appointment with NUS School of Computing . From November 2015 till October 2018, I was a faculty at the Department of Computer Science of University College London. Prior to joining UCL, from December 2012 to October 2015, I was a postdoc at IMDEA Software Institute . From November 2008 to November 2012, I was a research assistant in the CS Department of KU Leuven , where I obtained my PhD. During my doctoral studies I was a visiting PhD fellow in the Department of Computer Science of Aarhus University and a research intern in the PPT group at MSR Cambridge . I got my MSc degree in Mathematics and CS in 2008 from Dept. of Mathematics and Mechanics of Saint Petersburg State University . Before joining academia I worked as a software developer at JetBrains . Curriculum Vitae: [ PDF ] Consider submitting your papers on blockchain applications to the new open-access Journal of Financial Technology . If you are looking for the "CSL Family Tree" slide, you can find it here . Other slides from my recent talks are here . What's New Jan 31 Our POPL'19 paper on program synthesis, made it to NUS School of Computing news . Jan 9 I will be giving a talk on How to Bootsrap a Research Project at PLMW @ POPL'19 . Nov 28 A work-in-progress report on probabilistic verification of security properties of blockchain protocols will be presented by Kiran Gopinathan at CoqPL 2019 . Nov 12 Gave a talk entitled What We Talk about When We Talk about Formally Verified Systems at Blockchain and Cybersecurity Workshop 2018 hosted by National University of Singapore. Nov 5 A paper on practical programming with distributed protocos (with Kristoffer Just Andersen ), will appear at PADL 2019 . Oct 9 Two papers accepted at POPL 2019 : on program synthesis via Separation Logic (with Nadia Polikarpova ), and on proving no-false-positives for unsound static race detectors (with Nikos Gorogiannis and Peter O'Hearn ). Sep 8 Looking forward to visit Dominique Devriese at KU Leuven on September 19 and give a talk on program synthesis with Separation Logic. Aug 29 On September 3-5, I will be visiting ric Tanter and the research group of Ctlin Hricu at Inria Paris. Aug 23 Our paper on Finding the Greedy, Prodigal, and Suicidal Contracts at Scale, with Ivica Nikoli , Aashish Kolluri , Prateek Saxena and Aquinas Hobor , got accepted to ACSAC 2018 . Aug 15 I am looking forward to visit Sukyoung Ryu and Hongseok Yang and their groups at KAIST in Daejeon on August 23-28. Aug 14 On August 21, I will be giving a series of lectures on implementation and verification of distributed systems and their applications at SIGPL Summer School 2018 in Seoul (yes, that page is entirely in Korean, but, even if you are, just like me, not a Korean speaker, you can still try to identify the titles of my talks there). Aug 6 Scilla , a strongly typed intermediate language for smart contracts developed by Zilliqa , is now open-sourced: here's the repository , and here's a new shiny web page with tutorials and documentation. Contributions are welcome! Jul 20 Got promoted to an Associate Professor of Computer Science at UCL, effective 1st October 2018. Jul 6 Our paper on RacerD , an industrial-scale compositional static race detector, developed at Facebook, with Sam Blackshear , Nikos Gorogiannis , and Peter O'Hearn , is conditionally accepted at OOPSLA 2018 . Here's the preprint . All news Students and Research Associates I am very fortunate to work with these brilliant people: Daniel Lok , Capstone project student at Yale-NUS, 2018-19. Jake (Si Yuan) Goh , Capstone project student at Yale-NUS, 2018-19. George Prlea , Undergraduate researcher at UCL, 2018-19. Maria A Schett , PhD student at UCL, since November 2017. Current and past affiliates Recent Publications and Manuscripts [ All publications | DBLP | Google Scholar ] Structuring the Synthesis of Heap-Manipulating Programs Nadia Polikarpova and Ilya Sergey 46th ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages (POPL 2019). Lisbon, Portugal, January 2019. Recipient of POPL 2019 Distinguished Paper Award [ PDF | Extended Version | GitHub | Accepted Artifact | Slides ] A True Positives Theorem for a Static Race Detector Nikos Gorogiannis , Peter O'Hearn , and Ilya Sergey 46th ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages (POPL 2019). Lisbon, Portugal, January 2019. [ PDF | Extended Version | Slides ] Distributed Protocol Combinators Kristoffer Just Andersen and Ilya Sergey 21st International Symposium on Practical Aspects of Declarative Languages (PADL 2019). Lisbon, Portugal, January 2019. [ PDF | Code ] Finding the Greedy, Prodigal, and Suicidal Contracts at Scale Ivica Nikoli , Aashish Kolluri , Ilya Sergey, Prateek Saxena , and Aquinas Hobor 2018 Annual Computer Security Applications Conference (ACSAC 2018). San Juan, Puerto Rico, USA, December 2018. [ PDF | Tool ] RacerD: Compositional Static Race Detection Sam Blackshear , Nikos Gorogiannis , Peter O'Hearn , and Ilya Sergey 33rd ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Object-Oriented Programming Systems, Languages and Applications (OOPSLA 2018). Boston, MA, USA, November 2018. [ PDF | Talk ] Temporal Properties of Smart Contracts Ilya Sergey, Amrit Kumar , and Aquinas Hobor ISoLA 2018, the track on Reliable Smart Contracts: State-of-the-art, Applications, Challenges and Future Directions. Limassol, Cyprus, November 2018. [ PDF ] EthIR: A Framework for High-Level Analysis of Ethereum Bytecode Elvira Albert , Pablo Gordillo , Benjamin Livshits , Albert Rubio , and Ilya Sergey 16th International Symposium on Automated Technology for Verification and Analysis (ATVA 2018). Los Angeles, CA, USA, October 2018. [ PDF | arXiv | Code ] Scilla: a Smart Contract Intermediate-Level LAnguage Ilya Sergey, Amrit Kumar , and Aquinas Hobor Technical report. January 2018. [ PDF ] Paxos Consensus, Deconstructed and Abstracted lvaro Garca Prez , Alexey Gotsman , Yuri Meshman , and Ilya Sergey 27th European Symposium on Programming (ESOP 2018). Thessaloniki, Greece, April 2018. [ PDF | Extended Version | Code ] Lecture notes Programs and Proofs: Mechanizing Mathematics with Dependent Types Lecture notes with exercises. [ PDF | Course page | GitHub ] In Press Scilla - A Formal Verification Oriented Contract Language. Video Interview to Epicenter . 6 June 2018. Mike Orcutt. Ethereums smart contracts are full of holes . MIT Technology Review . 1 March 2018. Jordan Pearson. Millions of Dollars In Ethereum Are Vulnerable to Hackers Right Now . Motherboard, Vice . 22 February 2018. Selected Projects and Software Scilla A strongly typed functional intermediate language for smart contracts. [ Web page | Position Paper | GitHub ] Toychain A minimalistic blockchain consensus implemented and verified in Coq. [ Paper | GitHub ] Disel: Distributed Separation Logic A mechanised framework for compositional verification of distributed systems. [ Project page | GitHub ] FCSL: Fine-grained Concurrent Separation Logic A Coq-based verification tool for fine-grained concurrent programs. [ Project page | Main Paper ] Geometry Testing A QuickCheck-style framework for randomised testing of geometric algorithms. [ GitHub | Paper ] Pushdown k-CFA Pushdown context-sensistive control-flow analysis with optional Abstract Garbage Collection for LambdaJS and a subset of Scheme programming language. [ GitHub | Paper ] I am a also a creator of the La Clojure plugin for IntelliJ IDEA . It is no longer maintained, but its sources are available on GitHub. Check my GitHub profile for my other projects. Teaching YSC2229: Introductory Data Structures and Algorithms , Lecturer. Yale-NUS College. Spring 2019. SIGPL Summer School 2018 , Dongguk University, Seoul, Korea. August 2018. Lecturer . [ Lecture 1 | Lecture 2 | Lecture 3 ] ENGS102P: Design and Professional Skills , Scenario Project Organiser. UCL. Spring 2018. COMP104P: Theory II, Anallysis of Algorithms , Lecturer. UCL. Spring 2016, Spring 2017, Spring 2018. COMP214P: Systems Engineering , Scenario Week Designer. UCL. Autumn 2017. [ Intro | Conclusion ] COMP205P: Software Engineering and HCI , Scenario Week Designer. UCL. Spring 2017. [ Intro | Conclusion ] COMP205P: Software Engineering and HCI , Scenario Week Designer. UCL. Spring 2016. [ Intro | Conclusion ] COMP2012: Directed Reading , Second Examiner. UCL. Spring 2016. Programs and Proofs: Mechanizing Mathematics with Dependent Types , Summer School Lecturer. JetBrains Inc. / Saint-Petersburg State University. August 2014. [ School page ] Collaborators Over the years, I have been very lucky to work on joint research projects with some great people: Elvira Albert Kristoffer Just Andersen Anindya Banerjee Sam Blackshear Joachim Breitner Dave Clarke David Darais Germn Andrs Delbianco Dominique Devriese lvaro Garca Prez Nikos Gorogiannis Alexey Gotsman Pablo Gordillo Aquinas Hobor Aashish Kolluri Amrit Kumar Mohsen Lesani Ben Livshits Jan Midtgaard Matt Might Aleks Nanevski Ivica Nikoli Pablo Nogueira Peter O'Hearn Karl Palmskog Simon L. Peyton Jones Frank Piessens George Prlea Anton Podkopaev Nadia Polikarpova Talia Ringer Albert Rubio Prateek Saxena Maria A Schett Thomas Sibut-Pinote Zachary Tatlock David Van Horn Dimitrios Vytiniotis James R. Wilcox Miscellanea I am married to CG artist Lilia Anisimova . I am on Twitter as @ilyasergey . My Erds number is here (you can view this MathSciNet page from your university network). Last time I checked it was 4. The photo above is couresy of Elena Alhimovich . Here is my "official" photo, suitable for appropriate occasions. Yet another picture of mine by Jorge Cham , for I have contributed to the PHD Movie 2 on Kickstarter. While living in Madrid, I enjoyed its inimitable atmosphere and delicious food. For the latter, this Maribel's Dining Guide to Madrid (kindly provided by Aleks Nanevski) always came in handy. Last modified: Tue Feb 19 13:02:09 +08 2019 
