 Welcome! Home Publications Photography Contact CV Semantic Scholar GitHub KeyBase I am Pontus Stenetorp, * a researcher and educator that finds Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Machine Learning research to be fascinating. The widely-adopted text annotation and visualisation tool brat is one of my creations and since 2012 a majority of my work has been on representation learning ( Deep Learning ) for natural language. My current research focuses on end-to-end models that learns with a minimal amount of human supervision with a particular focus on allowing computers to pass real-world exams and is supported by the Paul G Allen Family Foundation . If you share any of my research interests, do have a look at my list of publications and if you have questions regarding my research, feel free to contact me . I also teach and supervise student research projects in my area of expertise, but do contact me well in advance of any project application deadline since I can only accept a limited number of students each term and the slots tend to fill up quickly. Currently, I am a Senior Research Associate at University College London (UCL) and a member of the Machine Reading Group lead by Reader Sebastian Riedel at the Department of Computer Science . I received a PhD from the University of Tokyo in 2013 and a MSc Eng from the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) in 2010. In my spare time I contribute to the Julia programming language community, read plenty of books, and enjoy being a mediocre amateur photographer . * Technically my name is Pontus Lars Erik Saito Stenetorp or , but buy me a drink some time and I will tell you all about how I ended up with possibly the longest name in Japan and what it does to your average company customer database. Selected Publications Sonse Shimaoka, Pontus Stenetorp, Kentaro Inui, Sebastian Riedel. Neural Architectures for Fine-grained Entity Type Classification. April 2017. Guillaume Bouchard, Pontus Stenetorp, Sebastian Riedel. Learning to Generate Textual Data. November 2016. Hubert Soyer, Pontus Stenetorp, Akiko Aizawa. Leveraging Monolingual Data for Crosslingual Compositional Word Representations. May 2015. Pontus Stenetorp. Transition-based Dependency Parsing Using Recursive Neural Networks. December 2013. Pontus Stenetorp, Sampo Pyysalo, Goran Topi, Tomoko Ohta, Sophia Ananiadou, Jun'ichi Tsujii. brat: a Web-based Tool for NLP-Assisted Text Annotation. April 2012. For an exhaustive list, see my publication page . Activities Aug 7th-11th '18: Organising JuliaCon in London, England, UK. Feb 7th '18: Speaking at BBC Blue Room Presents: Machine Learning Fireside Chats in London, England, UK. Feb 2nd '18: Speaking at the University of Edinburgh in Edinburgh, Scotland, UK. Dec 22nd '17: Speaking at the Tokyo Institute of Technology in Tokyo, Japan. Dec 21st '17: Speaking at the University of Tokyo in Tokyo, Japan. Dec 19th '17: Speaking at the RIKEN Center for Advanced Intelligence Project (AIP) in Tokyo, Japan. Dec 18th '17: Speaking at Tohoku University in Sendai, Japan. 2011-2018 Pontus Stenetorp 
