Home Toggle Animation Courses CSC/SE/CPE Senior Project Books Creative Greenfoot Selected Publications When the Hurly-burlys Done, of Battles Lost & Won: Lessons Learned from the Toil & Trouble of Stirring Liberal Arts into an Engineering Cauldron at a Public Polytechnic High Efficiency Inverted Instruction: Doubling Capacity while Preserving Small Classroom Quality Procedurally Generated, Adaptive Music for Rapid Game Development Assessing Student and Employer Satisfaction in a Liberal Arts/Engineering Bachelor of Arts Degree Improving First-year Success and Retention through Interest-Based CS0 Courses Improving Engineering Education through Creativity, Collaboration, and Context in a First Year Course CAMP: A Common API for Measuring Performance Enabling P2P Cooperative WMS Proxy Caching and Prefetching in an Educational Environment A Fast Connection-Time Redirection Mechanism for Internet Application Scalability Branch Transition Rate: A New Metric for Improved Branch Classification Analysis More... Do you suffer from FMOOWMP? Try FOH! Michael Haungs Check out my book Computer Science Department California Polytechnic State University 1 Grand Ave San Luis Obispo, California 93407 Office: 228, Bldg. 14 Phone: (805) 756-5531 FAX: (805) 756-2956 mhaungs@calpoly.edu Computer Science The Computer Science Department educates students in the discipline of computer science and teaches them to apply their education to solve practical problems in a socially responsible way. Pursuant to the department's educational mission, faculty engage in research and professional development that allows them to remain current in their fields and to provide technological leadership to the university community. Learn more  Computing for the Interactive Arts Computing for the Interactive Arts is a new cross-disciplinary minor between Art and Computer Science. Learn more  Liberal Arts and Engineering Studies The BA degree program in Liberal Arts and Engineering Studies is jointly offered by the colleges of Liberal Arts and Engineering. This program prepares students for a wide range of innovative careers in emerging professional fields that combine skills and interests in engineering, the arts, technology, and culture, and also prepares them for further study in graduate school. This program is open to all students at Cal Poly. Learn more  About Me Michael Haungs is an Associate Professor in the Computer Science Department and Co-Director of the Liberal Arts and Engineering Studies (LAES) program at California Polytechnic State University. He received his B.S. degree in Industrial Engineering and Operations Research from the University of California, Berkeley, his M.S. degree in Computer Science from Clemson University, and his Ph.D in Computer Science from the University of California, Davis. Current work centers on web and cloud application development, game design and programming, and computer science education.  CalPoly, San Luis Obispo 2018
