David Janzen C a l i f o r n i a P o l y t e c h n i c S t a t e U n i v e r s i t y David Janzen Home > :: Courses :: Research :: Student Research David Janzen Professor California Polytechnic State University Computer Science Department San Luis Obispo, California Email: djanzen (at) calpoly.edu Phone: (805)756-2929 Office: 14-212 President and Principal Consultant/Trainer Simex Morro Bay, CA co-founder Steadfast Innovation, LLC Creator of Squid (formerly Papyrus) San Luis Obispo, CA Office Hours:: Fall 2018 and Winter 2019 None - on sabbatical until Spring 2019 Courses:: None - on sabbatical Fall 2018 and Winter 2019 Teaching CSC 406 in Spring 2019 Old Courses Software Engineering Capstone:: The SE Capstone consists of three courses over an academic year: CSC 402 Software Requirements Engineering (Fall) CSC 405 Software Construction (Winter) CSC 406 Software Deployment (Spring) Three to five teams of four to six upper-level undergraduate students each develop the same system for an industrial sponsor. The industrial sponsor serves as the business customer, establishing requirements and acceptance criteria in consultation with the Cal Poly faculty. While the courses include typical academic activities such as lectures, readings, and exams, the capstone project is the focal point and primary outcome. Companies interested in proposing a project for the SE Capstone should see the Call for Proposals . Students interested in participating in the SE Capstone should have completed the prerequisites of CSC 305, 308, and 309. Working with Cal Poly Computing Students:: Check out this brief guide to ways to work with us. Research Interests:: Empirical Software Engineering Agile Methods Test-Driven Development Object-Oriented Systems Design Patterns Software Metrics Computer Science, Software Engineering, and Information Systems Pedagogy Research Projects:: Does Active Learning Build Grit? (sponsored by NSF) Test-Driven Learning with WebIDE (sponsored by NSF) Android at Cal Poly (sponsored by Google) Software Engineering Evidence Database (SEEDS) Test-Driven Learning : Pedagogical Patterns for Introducing Test-Driven Development in Early Programming Courses (sponsored by Lockheed Martin) Assessing the impacts of Test-Driven Development on Internal Software Quality Selected Publications :: Student Research:: I think the best senior project and masters thesis topics are the ones that a student comes up with on their own. However, I have plenty of ideas to offer on a range of topics. If you want to talk through some possibilities, feel free to come by during office hours, or send me an email to schedule a time. Pitch2Programmers event to find a senior project. M.S. Guidelines Senior Project Guidelines Outreach:: CS4HS - supporting area high school computing teachers EPIC - summer engineering camp at Cal Poly Old News:: (not kept current) Software Engineering Careers What is the difference between SE and CS ? The U.S. Bureau of Labor and Statistics reports the median salary (2010) for computer application software engineers was $90,530 and predicts a 30% increase in software engineering jobs in the next ten years. See this link addressing myths on CS careers . Software Engineering Careers (by Computer Science Online) Information Technology Careers (by Computer Science Online) Computer Engineering Careers (by Computer Science Online) Marissa Mayer, female computer scientist and VP at Google (great role-model for women in computing, if you don't have time for the whole thing, watch the first part then skip to about the 47 minute mark) Marissa Mayer, SIGCSE'08 Keynote (scroll down to find video) Computer Science Online Software Engineering Advising Resources See Curriculum and Flowcharts for the SE major (scroll to bottom of the page) Other:: IEEE Software Agile Taxonomy Safari Books Online (access from on campus) Cal Poly Home | Cal Poly Find It CSC Department | SE Major Last Update: 08/09/2017 David S. Janzen Computer Science California Polytechnic State University San Luis Obispo, Ca 93407 805.756.2929 djanzen (at) calpoly.edu
