Skip to main content Jonathan Ventura Toggle navigation Home Research Teaching Publications Code Blog CV Jonathan Ventura, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering California Polytechnic State University 1 Grand Avenue, San Luis Obispo, CA 93407 Email: jventu09@calpoly.edu Phone: (805) 756-5624 Office: 14-227 Google Scholar LinkedIn Twitter (@jonathanventura) Jonathan Ventura Ph.D. Jonathan Ventura is an assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering at Cal Poly, San Luis Obispo. His research focus is computer vision: making computers see. He is especially interested in geometric problems in vision such as 3D modeling and camera localization, as well as machine learning, image processing and medical image analysis. One major goal of his work has been to enable sophisticated and widely available mobile augmented reality experiences through advanced sensor technology. Short bio: Dr. Ventura is a native of the central coast of California and earned his Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of California, Santa Barbara in 2012. He received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in Computer Science from UCSB, as well. Before joining Cal Poly, he was an assistant professor at University of Colorado Colorado Springs. He has also been a postdoctoral researcher with the Institute for Computer Graphics and Vision at Graz University of Technology in Austria, in collaboration with Qualcomm Research, and worked as a research intern at the Adobe Advanced Technologies Lab in San Jose, CA. He has presented his work at several top international conferences and journals, including IEEE CVPR, ICCV, ECCV, ACM SIGGRAPH, IEEE ISMAR, and IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics. Joint work with his colleagues has twice been awarded the best paper prize from IEEE ISMAR, the premier international augmented reality conference. Prospective Students: I advise undergraduate and graduate research projects in geometric computer vision, machine learning, augmented reality and robotics. If you are interested, please contact me via email or come by my office. News: Mar. 15, 2017: The National Science Foundation has awarded UCCS a three-year grant to host a Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) site starting summer 2017. Jugal Kalita is the PI and I am co-PI. The topic is Machine Learning in Natural Language Processing and Computer Vision. Visit our web page for more information. Mar. 3, 2017: I will present a paper based on Chloe Bradley's M.S. thesis at the FG 2017 Workshop on Heterogeneous Face Recognition in June. Jul. 13, 2016: My paper on Structure from Motion on a Sphere was accepted to the European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV) in Amsterdam. See all Copyright  2018 Jonathan Ventura
