Richard H. Eckhouse Computer Science Richard H. Eckhouse is a retired professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Massachusetts, Boston. His academic areas of expertise are fundamentals of computing systems, machine and assembly language programming, real-time systems, computer architecture, and microprogramming. As a researcher, his interests include operating systems, virtual computer systems, multiprocessing, metalanguages applied to operating system semantics, biomedical devices, and the use of computers in human performance and rehabilitation studies. He holds a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Cornell University, 1962; an MS in electrical engineering from the University of Illinois, 1963; and a Ph.D. in computer science from the State University of New York at Buffalo, 1971. He has been a professor and lecturer of computer science and electrical engineering at Bucknell University, Dartmouth College, the State University of New York at Buffalo, Temple University, the University of Massachusetts Amherst, and Yale University. He is a principal in MOCO inc., a biomedical research firm specializing in biomechanics and human performance assessment. His industrial experience includes a variety of management positions at Digital Equipment Corporation and an appointment at IBM Research at Yorktown Heights. Eckhouse has served in various capacities for the IEEE Computer Society, the Association for Computing Machinery, the Journal of Medical Systems, and serves as a member of the Graduate Record Examination - Computer Science, Educational Testing Service. He is a member of Sigma Xi. Besides his many publications in professional journals, Eckhouse has co-authored three books, Minicomputer Systems: Organization, Programming, and Applications , Computer Programming and Architecture , and Alpha RISC Architecture, for Programmers . Click here for his curriculum vitae (PDF) Contact Points Electronic mail to: richard.eckhouse@umb.edu Non-electronic mail to: MOCO, inc. 344 Gannett Road Scituate, MA 02066 Telephone and FAX to: 781.545.2040 MOCO 781.545.8141 MOCO office FAX Last update: 15 October 2012
