 Zhenming Liu Department of Computer Science The College of William & Mary zliu@cs.wm.edu Bio: I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the College of William & Mary. Prior to joining W&M, I spent two years as a quant research ( algo trading) in Two Sigma Investments. I received my Ph.D. from Harvard (2012 ), and spent two years as a postdoc at Princeton University. I graduated from the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology with a B.Eng in Computer Science and a minor in Mathematics. Research Interests My research focuses on building algorithmic foundations for large-scale end-to-end machine learning solutions. Our research program consists of two thrusts: 1. Computational learning theory for graphs and time series: we design computationally tractable, statistically sound, and practically relevant learning algorithms for graphs and times series data. 2. Large-scale learning system design and delivery : we design algorithmic tools to power large-scale machine learning systems. Specifically, we design low-cost systems that can train on peta-scale data, and systems that can deliver high-throughput machine learning services. Funding & Industrial Collaborations Our works are currently supported by both government and industrial funds: 1. NSF-1755769: CRII: III: Theory and Practice of Learning on Graphs 2. Rutherford Fellowship at the Alan Turing Institute (UK) 3. Activision/Blizzard gift Selected Publications ( Complete list ) DeepDecision : A Mobile Deep Learning Framework for Edge Video Analytics Xukan Ran, Haoliang Chen, Xiaodan Zhu, Zhenming Liu, Jiasi Chen. In the IEEE Conference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM), 2018 From which world is your graph? Cheng Li, Felix Wong, Zhenming Liu and Varun Kanade . In the 30th Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, NIPS 2017 On the efficiency of social recommender networks? [best paper runner-up] Felix Ming-Fai Wong, Zhenming Liu, Mung Chiang. In the IEEE Conference on Computer Communications (INFOCOM), 2015 The diffusion of networking technologies Sharon Goldberg and Zhenming Liu In ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (SODA), 2013 Why Steiner-tree type algorithms work for community detection Mung Chiang, Henry Lam, Zhenming Liu, Vince Poor In Journal of Machine Learning Research W&CP (AISTATS), 2013 An efficient implementation of one big switch abstraction in Software Defined Networks Nanxi Kang, Zhenming Liu, Jennifer Rexford, David Walker In ACM International Conference on emerging Networking Experiments and Technologies ( CoNEXT ), 2013 [abstract | full paper] Distributed non-stochastic experts Varun Kanade , Zhenming Liu, Bozidar Radunovic In Neural Information Processing Systems Conference (NIPS), 2012 Continuous distributed counting for Non-monotonic streams Zhenming Liu, Bozidar Radunovic , Milan Vojnovic In ACM SIGMOD-SIGACT-SIGART Symposium on Principles of Database Systems (PODS), 2012 Chernoff- Hoeffding Bounds for Markov Chains: Generalized and Simplified Kai-Min Chung, Henry Lam, Zhenming Liu, Michael Mitzenmacher In Symposium on Theoretical Aspects of Computer Science (STACS), 2012
