 Richard Hughey E-Mail Address Please Enable JavaScript rph@soe.ucsc.edu Title Vice Provost and Dean of Undergraduate Education Professor, Computer Science and Engineering Professor, Biomolecular Engineering Department Biomolecular Engineering Computer Science and Engineering Telephone Number 831-459-1993 Office Location Kerr Hall, Room 211 Office Hours By appointment: mbarton@ucsc.edu Biography Richard Hughey is Vice Provost and Dean of Undergraduate Education (VPDUE) and a professor of computer engineering and of biomolecular engineering at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Prior to becoming VPDUE, he served as UCSC Co-Director of the Advanced Studies Laboratories (ASL), a partnership laboratory jointly run by UCSC and NASA Ames Research Center, where he spearheaded development of the Materials Analysis for Collaborative Science (MACS) Facility. The UCSC MACS Facility provides state-of-the-art analytical electron microscopy and surface science analysis to the UCSC, Ames, and Silicon Valley community. He led with collaborators UCSC's SURF-IT summer undergraduate research program sponsored by the National Science Foundation (2003-11). He is co-creator of the SAM sequence analysis package. He has previously served as chair of computer engineering, vice chair of biomolecular engineering, chair of the faculty committee responsible for undergraduate education, and chair of the faculty committee responsible for undergraduate admissions and financial aid. He has led or co-led development of a multitude of programs, including undergraduate programs in robotics engineering, bioengineering, network & digital technology, and bioinformatics; graduate programs or concentrations in bioinformatics, biomedical science and engineering, and robotics & control. In 2008 he received a UCSC Chancellor's Achievement Award for Diversity in recognition of his work within the Baskin School of Engineering. Research Areas Bioinformatics, hidden Markov models, computer architecture, parallel computation Web Page Division of Undergraduate Education B.S. in Bioengineering B.S. in Robotics Engineering SURF-IT Undergraduate Research Program UCSC MACS Facility at NASA Ames Selected Publications Finding the Next Computational Model: Experience with the UCSC Kestrel, R. Hughey , A. Di Blas, Journal of Signal Processing Systems, 53(1-2), Nov 2008 , DOI 10.1007/s11265-007-0130-1, pp. 171-186 A Di Blas, D Dahle, M Diekhans, L Grate, J Hirschberg, K Karplus, H Keller, M Kendrick, F Mesa-Martinez, DPease, ERice, A Schultz, D Speck, R Hughey The Kestrel Parallel Processor, IEEE TPDS, v. 16:1, 2005. Hidden Markov models for sequence analysis: Extension and analysis of the basic method. R. Hughey and A. Krogh, CABIOS 12(2): 95-107, 1996 J Alicia Grice, Richard Hughey, and Don Speck Reduced Space Sequence Alignment. CABIOS 13(1):45-53, 1997. Degree B.A. Mathematics, Swarthmore College B.S. Engineering, Swarthmore College Sc.M., Ph.D., Computer Science, Brown University Staff Peter Minogue Alumni Alex Atkins (Alumni) Are you Richard Hughey? If so, you can update your directory information . 
