 Phokion Kolaitis' Home Page Phokion Kolaitis' Home Page Phokion G. Kolaitis Distinguished Professor Computer Science and Engineering Department University of California, Santa Cruz Office : E2-345A Address : Computer Science and Engineering Department University of California, Santa Cruz Santa Cruz, CA 95064, USA Phone : 831-459-4768 e-mail : kolaitis at ucsc.edu Bio & CV Scholarly Work Teaching & Mentoring Editorial Work Personal Selected Links Biographical Sketch and Curriculum Vitae Phokion Kolaitis is a Distinguished Professor at UC Santa Cruz and a Principal Research Staff Member at the IBM Almaden Research Center . His research interests include principles of database systems, logic in computer science, and computational complexty. Kolaitis is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) , a Foreign Member of the Finnish Academy of Science and Letters , a Foreign Member of Academia Europaea , and the recipient of a 1993 Guggenheim Fellowship . He is also the recipient of two IBM Research Division Outstanding Innovation Awards, an IBM Research Division Outstanding Technical Achievement Award, a co-winner of both the 2008 and the 2014 ACM PODS Alberto O. Mendelzon Test-of-Time Award , and a co-winner of the 2013 International Conference on Database Theory Test-of-Time Award . In 2014, Kolaitis was awarded an Honorary Doctorate Degree (Doctor Honoris Causa) from the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Greece. Curriculum Vitae Scholarly Work Books (co-authored and co-edited) List of publications from the DBLP Bibliography Server Citations (Google Scholar) Current Sponsored Research: DBCOMSOC - Databases Meet Computational Social Choice Selected Past Sponsored Research: Aspects of Intergrating Heterogeneous and Inconcistent Data Selected Past Sponsored Research: Data Interoperability via Schema Mappings Logical Structures in Computation, Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing, Fall 2016 Teaching and Mentoring Selected Current and Recent Teaching Ph.D. Students Supervised Postdoctoral Scholars Mentored Editorial Work Current Editorial Appointments Past Editorial Appointments Personal Some Personal Information Selected Links AAAS - American Association for the Advancement of Science ACM - Association for Computing Machinery Academia Europea ASL - Association for Symbolic Logic CRA - Computing Research Association SIGLOG - ACM Special Interest Group on Logic and Computation LICS - IEEE Symposium on Logic in Computer Science PODS - ACM Symposium on Principles of Database Systems ICDT - International Conference on Database Theory Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing The TeachLogic Project Wikipedia entry for Phokion, "The Good" Wikipedia entry for Kolaitis (the village) Irini Kolaitis, MD Nicholas Kolaitis, MD Counter You are the latest visitor to this web page! The counter has just been increased by 1. Phokion G. Kolaitis Computer Science and Engineering Department University of California, Santa Cruz Santa Cruz, CA 95064, USA (831) 459-4768 kolaitis at ucsc.edu 
