 Marilyn Walker E-Mail Address Please Enable JavaScript mawalker@ucsc.edu Please Enable JavaScript maw@soe.ucsc.edu Title Professor, Computer Science and Engineering Department Computer Science and Engineering Telephone Number 831-459-1058 (email is better to reach me) Office Location Engineering 2, Room 267 Office Hours Thursday 3:30-4:30 PM. Mail Stop SOE3 Biography Marilyn Walker, is a Professor of Computer Science at UC Santa Cruz, and a fellow of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), in recognition of her for fundamental contributions to statistical methods for dialog optimization, to centering theory, and to expressive generation for dialog. Her current research includes work on computational models of dialogue interaction and conversational agents, analysis of affect, sarcasm and other social phenomena in social media dialogue, acquiring causal knowledge from text, conversational summarization, interactive story and narrative generation, and statistical methods for training the dialogue manager and the language generation engine for dialogue systems. Before coming to Santa Cruz in 2009, Walker was a professor of computer science at the University of Sheffield. From 1996 to 2003, she was a principal member of the research staff at AT&T Bell Labs and AT&T Research, where she worked on the AT&T Communicator project, developing a new architecture for spoken dialogue systems and statistical methods for dialogue management and generation. Walker has published more than 200 papers and has 10 U.S. patents granted or pending. She earned a B.A. in computer and information science at UC Santa Cruz, M.S. in computer science at Stanford University, and M.A. in linguistics and Ph.D. in computer science at the University of Pennsylvania. Research Areas Conversational agents, social media analytics, computational models of dialogue, interactive story and narrative generation, acquiring causal knowledge from blogs, natural language processing Web Page Marilyn Walker's Web Page and Online CV Natural Language and Dialogue Systems Lab Selected Publications Controlling User Perceptions of Linguistic Style: Trainable Generation of Personality Traits. Franois Mairesse and Marilyn Walker. Computational Linguistics, 2011. An Application of Reinforcement Learning to Dialogue Strategy Selection in a Spoken Dialogue System for Email. Marilyn Walker. Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research, JAIR, Vol 12., pp. 387-416, 2000. Towards Personality-Based User Adaptation: Psychologically Informed Stylistic Language Generation. Franois Mairesse and Marilyn Walker. User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction, 20:3, pages 227-278, 2010. An Unsupervised Method for Learning Generation Dictionaries for Spoken Dialogue Systems by Mining User Reviews. Ryuichiro Higashinaka, Marilyn Walker and Rashmi Prasad. Journal of ACM Transactions on Speech and Language Processing, 2007. Learning Content Selection Rules for Generating Object Descriptions in Dialogue. Pam Jordan and Marilyn Walker. In Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research, Vol 24, pp. 157-194, 2005. Degree Ph.D. Computer and Information Science, 1993 University of Pennsylvania. M.S. Computer Science, 1987, Stanford University B.A. Computer and Information Science, University of California Santa Cruz BSOE Graduation Year 1984 BSOE Degree B.A. Computer Science BSOE Post-Graduation Placement Hewlett Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto Students Vrindavan Harrison (Graduate) Alumni Namrata Pratap Simha (Alumni) Are you Marilyn Walker? If so, you can update your directory information . 
