 Linda Werner E-Mail Address Please Enable JavaScript linda@soe.ucsc.edu Please Enable JavaScript llwerner@ucsc.edu Title Adjunct Professor, Computer Science and Engineering Department Computer Science and Engineering Telephone Number 831-459-1017 831-535-3019 Office Location Engineering 2, Room 249 Office Hours Tuesday 2-3pm, Thursday 1-2pm, and by appointment Mail Stop SOE3 Biography Linda Werner has a Ph.D. in Computer Science and has extensive experience as an educator and researcher at the University of California, Santa Cruz, community college, high school, and junior high levels. She is actively involved in working to increase the numbers of female computer science students. Dr. Werner was the PI on an NSF-funded project on the retention of female students in computer science. She has been invited to share her research on pair programming and computer fluency at the university and middle school levels at international conferences, as well as NSF and ACM JETT/TECS sponsored workshops. In addition, she has many years of experience as a software engineer. She has consulted on an NSF GSE grant with PI, Dr. Jill Denner, to design, implement and conduct research on game design as a strategy for increasing girls interest, skills, and confidence in technology, for which she was active with interpretation and dissemination of results. She was also the co-PI on a one-year NSF/REESE study of computer game design and computational thinking, and received a 3-year grant from REESE that extended this work. She was a co-PI on a two-year NSF/GSE grant to study computer science students in community colleges looking at the role of motivation, family support and prior computer use (particularly digital gaming). Dr. Werner's research areas include: software engineering, computer science education, children and computer game creation, testing, increasing diversity in the computer science field, and social issues. Dr. Werner is affiliated with the Center for Games and Playable Media and with the Center for Information Technology Research in the Interest of Society. Research Areas Software engineering, computer science education, children and computer game creation, testing, diversity in computer science, social issues Web Page home page recent publications cyberlearning video coding Degree Ph.D. in Computer Science, 1988, UC San Diego M.S. in Computer Science, 1983, UC San Diego B.A. in Mathematics, 1973, Clark University Are you Linda Werner? If so, you can update your directory information . 
