Daniel G. Aliaga Associate Professor of Computer Science Joined department: Fall 2003 EducationBS, Honors, Magna Cum Laude,, Brown University, Computer Science (1991) MS, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Computer Science (1993) PhD, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Computer Science (1999) Dr. Aliaga's research is primarily in the area of 3D computer graphics but overlaps with computer vision and visualization while also having strong multi-disciplinary collaborations outside of computer science. His research activities are divided into three groups: a) his pioneering work in the multi-disciplinary area of inverse modeling and design; b) his first-of-its-kind work in codifying information into images and surfaces, and c) his compelling work in a visual computing framework including high-quality 3D acquisition methods. Dr. Aliaga's inverse modeling and design is particularly focused at digital city planning applications that provide innovative "what-if" design tools enabling urban stake holders from cities worldwide to automatically integrate, process, analyze, and visualize the complex interdependencies between the urban form, function, and the natural environment. Dr. Aliaga's research has resulted in cutting-edge new methodologies (e.g., 100+ publications in top-venues covering multiple disciplines), membership in more than 65 program committees including all of the leading conferences in his field, several on-going international multi-disciplinary collaborations (i.e., with world experts in computer science, photogrammetry, urban planning, architecture, meteorology, atmospheric sciences, earth sciences, traffic engineering, and more), invited national and international talks and presentations (i.e., about 50 talks and presentations in United States, Brasil, Colombia, Ecuador, France, Japan, Korea, Peru, Qatar, Sweden, and Switzerland), funding support from multiple entities (e.g., NSF, IARPA, MTC, Google, Microsoft, Adobe) and technology transfer (e.g., roles in several startups and multiple patents). Dr. Aliaga performs his research in close interaction with both PhD candidates and with undergraduate students. Selected PublicationsI. Garcia-Dorado, D. Aliaga, P. Bhalachandran, P. Schmid, D. Niyogi, Fast Weather Simulation for Inverse Procedural Design of 3D Urban Models, ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 36(2), #21, 19 pages, 2017.G. Nishida, I. Garcia-Dorado, D. Aliaga, B. Benes, A. Bousseau, Interactive Sketching of Urban Procedural Models, ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 35(4), #130, 11 pages, 2016.I. Demir, D. Aliaga, B. Benes, Coupled Segmentation and Similarity Detection for Architectural Models, ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 34(4), #104, 11 pages, 2015.C. Montalto, I. Garcia-Dorado, D. Aliaga, M. Oliveira, F. Meng, A Total Variation Approach for Customizing Imagery to Improve Visual Acuity, ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG), 34(3), 15 pages, 2015. 
