Bharat Bhargava Professor of Computer Science Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering (courtesy)Joined department: Fall 1984 EducationBS, Punjab University, Mathematics (Honors) (1966) BE, Indian Institute of Science, Electrical and Computer Engineering (with distinction) (1969) PhD, Purdue University, Electrical Engineering (1974) Bharat Bhargava is a professor of the Department of Computer Science with a courtesy appointment in the School of Electrical & Computer Engineering at Purdue University. Professor Bhargava is conducting research in security and privacy issues in distributed systems. This involves host authentication and key management, secure routing and dealing with malicious hosts, adaptability to attacks, and experimental studies. His recent work is on Intelligent Autonomous Systems and data analytics and machine learning. It includes cognitive autonomy, reflexivity, deep learning and knowledge discovery. His earlier work on Waxed Prune with MIT and NGC built a prototype for privacy preserving data dissemination in cross-domains. Based on his research in reliability, he is studying vulnerabilities in systems to assess threats to large organizations. He has developed techniques to avoid threats that can lead to operational failures. The research has direct impact on nuclear waste transport, bio-security, disaster management, and homeland security. These ideas and scientific principles are being applied to the building of secure networks and systems. Professor Bhargava is recipient of seven best paper awards in various international computer science conferences. Professor Bhargava is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and of the Institute of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers. In 1999, he received the IEEE Technical Achievement Award for a major impact of his decade long contributions to foundations of adaptability in communication and distributed systems. He has been awarded the charter Gold Core Member distinction by the IEEE Computer Society for his distinguished service. He received Outstanding Instructor Awards from the Purdue chapter of the ACM in 1996 and 1998. He has graduated the largest number of Ph.D students in CS department and is active in supporting/mentoring minority students. In 2003, he was inducted in the Purdue's Book of Great Teachers. In 2017, he received the Helen Schleman Gold Medallion Award for supporting women at Purdue and Focus award for advancing technology for differently abled students. He serves on seven editorial boards of international journals. He also served on the IEEE Computer Society on Technical Achievement award and Fellow committees. Professor Bhargava is the founder of the IEEE Symposium on Reliable and Distributed Systems, IEEE conference on Digital Library, and the ACM Conference on Information and Knowledge Management. Selected PublicationsX. Wu, R. Jiang, B. Bhargava, "On the Security of Data Access Control for Multiauthority Cloud Storage Systems", IEEE Transactions on Services Computing, , No. 10, Vol. 2, pp. 258-272, 2017N. Ahmed and B. Bhargava. From Byzantine Fault-Tolerance to Fault-Avoidance: An Architectural Transformation to Attack and Failure Resilience. Accepted for Publication in IEEE Transactions on Cloud Computing, Dec. 2016. ( Available on IEEE Explore early access) DOI:10.1109/TCC.2018.2814989 Y. Zhong, B. Bhargava, Y. Lu, P. Angin, A computational Dynamic Trust Model for User Authorization, IEEE Transaction on Dependable and Secure Computing, Vol. 12, No. 1, pp. 1-15, 2015N. Ahmed, B. Bhargava, Mayflies: A Moving Target Defense Framework for Distributed Systems. Proceedings of ACM Conference on Computers and Communications Security (CCS) workshop on Moving Target Defense: 59-64, Vienna, October, 2016 
