 Avi Silberschatz Professor of Computer Science at Yale University Biographical Sketch Avi Silberschatz is the Sidney J. Weinberg Professor of Computer Science at Yale University. He was the chair of the Computer Science department at Yale from 2005 to 2011. Prior to joining Yale, he was the Vice President of the Information Sciences Research Center at Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, New Jersey. Prior to that, he held a chaired professorship in the Department of Computer Sciences at the University of Texas at Austin. His research interests include database systems, operating systems, storage systems, and network management. Professor Silberschatz is a Fellow of ACM, a Fellow of IEEE, a Fellow of AAAS, and a member of the Connecticut Academy of Science and Engineering. He received the 2002 IEEE Taylor L. Booth Education Award, the 1998 ACM Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award, and the 1997 ACM SIGMOD Contribution Award. In recognition for his outstanding level of innovation and technical excellence, Silberschatz was awarded the Bell Laboratories President's Award, in 1998 (QTM Project), 1999 (DataBlitz Project), and 2004 (NetInventory Project). Professor Silberschatz is currently involved in a number of research projects dealing with database systems, networking, and privacy. He has graduated over a dozen Ph.D. students who now hold positions in academic institutions and industrial research laboratories. His writings have appeared in numerous ACM and IEEE publications and in other professional conferences and journals. He obtained over four dozen patents and over two dozen grants. He is a co-author of two well known textbooks -- Operating System Concepts and Database System Concepts . To view his Google Scholar Citations Page please click here Professor Silberschatz has written editorials dealing technology and policy issues, which have appeared in publications including The New York Times, Boston Globe, Hartford Courant, and Industry Standard. He blogs at The Post and tweets at @silberschatz . Contact Information Office: Watson, Room 308 Phone: (203) 432-4713 Fax: (203) 436-4918 Email: avi@cs.yale.edu Address: Department of Computer Science Yale University 51 Prospect Strret P.O. box 208285 New Haven, CT 06520-8285 USA Assistant -- Judi Paige: (203) 436-1267 judi.paige@yale.edu Memorable Trips Flying I always had a passion for flying. I made solo when I was 18 years old. Stopped flying until 2004 when I decided to resume this activity. I now fly regularily mostly a Cherokee 180. The pictures were taken while flying from New Haven to New York City. Yale University Yale University comprises three major academic components: Yale College (the undergraduate program), the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and the professional schools. Approximately 11,250 students attend Yale Designed by Emily Aiken 
