H. E. Dunsmore Associate Professor of Computer Science Joined department: 1978 EducationBS, University of Tennessee, Mathematics and Physics (1968) PhD, University of Maryland, Computer Science (1978) Dr. Dunsmore's interest areas include the Internet, the World-Wide Web, Web programming, Website design and implementation, software engineering, software architecture, software metrics, Java, C++, C, JavaScript, and Perl programming, cgi software, object-oriented design and programming, and information systems. Dr. Dunsmore is the Chair of the College of Science Undergraduate Education Policy and Curriculum Committee (UEPCC) and Chair of the College of Science Faculty Committee for Diversity (FCD). He is a member of the Executive Council of the Purdue University Teaching Academy. Dr. Dunsmore was selected Outstanding Teacher in the College of Science at Purdue in 1980. He is a 1996 recipient of the Charles B. Murphy Outstanding Undergraduate Teacher Award for Purdue University. He was chosen as a Founding Fellow of the Purdue Teaching Academy in 1997. He was selected in 1998 as a member of the Purdue University chapter of Mortar Board (national honor society that recognizes college students and faculty for their achievements in scholarship, leadership, and service). He was nominated in 1998 by Purdue for the Carnegie Foundation U.S. Professor of the Year program. Dr. Dunsmore was selected one of the Top Ten Teachers in the College of Science in 1994, 1995, and 2000. In 2001 he was selected as one of three Outstanding Indiana Information Technology Educators by the Indiana Information Technology Association (INITA). In 2005 he was voted by College of Science alumni as their Favorite Purdue University Computer Science Professor. He was selected in 2005 as a Senior Faculty Mentor in the Teaching for Tomorrow Program at Purdue. He is a member of the Phi Beta Kappa and Upsilon Pi Epsilon (honor society for the computing sciences). Dr. Dunsmore has extensive legal and industrial consulting experience. He has written over 60 technical articles. He is coauthor of the books Software Engineering Metrics and Models (with Sam Conte and Vincent Shen) and Internet Resources for Tourism and Leisure (with William Theobald). 
