Aditya P. Mathur Professor of Computer Science Joined department: 1987 EducationBE (Hons), Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Electrical Engineering (1970) MS, Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Electrical Engineering (1972) PhD, Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Computer Science (1977) Aditya Mathur's research and development activities span the areas of software testing, reliability, formal approaches for software process control, information retrieval, and the design of secure critical infrastructure including water and power plants. Software testing and reliability: Mathur has been a crusader for the use of code coverage criteria in the estimation of software reliability or as an orthogonal metric to assess confidence in the reliability estimates. He has proposed the "Saturation Effect" as a motivating device, and as a fundamental principle, for the quantitative test assessment using an increasingly powerful suite of criteria. This device is often used by vendors to enhance marketing of their test tools. Mathur, in collaboration with Raymond DeCarlo, has pioneered research into the use of feedback control in software development. This research has led to the development of a new area now known as Software Cybernetics. Information retrieval: Mathur, in collaboration with Luo Si's research group and IT specialist Jason Fish, is the prime architect of the INDURE expertise search system. This system is in use at four universities in the state of Indiana and serves as a model for expertise search systems under development in other states. Design of secure Critical Infrastructure: Mathur has led the establishment of one-of-a-kind set of testbeds to support research in the design of Critical Infrastructure including those for water treatment, water distribution, and electric power. These testbeds have served as a significant component in Mathur's work with his graduate students and research staff. This work has led to mechanisms for detecting process anomalies caused by cyber-physical attacks. These mechanisms have been successfully demonstrated on fully operational and realistic testbeds. Books: Mathur has authored several textbooks. His most well known book "Introduction to Microprocessors" was first published in 1980 by Tata McGraw Hill. This book, the first on the subject in India, and one of the earliest in the world, led to the initiation and subsequent proliferation of undergraduate courses in microprocessors. The third edition of this book was released in 1989 and is now in its 36th reprint. His book titled``Foundations of Software Testing" was published by Addison Wesley Professional in 2008 and its second edition was released in 2013. In collaboration with Barry Wittmann and Tim Korb, Mathur has coauthored"Start Concurrent: An Introduction to Problem Solving in Java with a Focus on Concurrency."This book is intended to serve as a text in freshman programming courses. Selected PublicationsSiddhant Shrivastava,Sridhar Adepu, and Aditya Mathur. "Design and Assessment of an Orthogonal Defense Mechanism for a Water Treatment Facility," Robotics and Autonomous Systems, Volume 101, March 2018, Pages 114-125Qin Lin, Sridhar Adepu, Sicco Verwer, and Aditya Mathur. TABOR: A Graphical Framework for Anomaly Detection in Industrial Control Systems, Proceedings of the 2018 on Asia Conference on Computer and Communications Security, Incheon, Republic of Korea, June 2018, pages 525-536.Sridhar Adepu and Aditya Mathur. "DistributedAttackDetectionin aWaterTreatmentPlant:MethodandCaseStudy", IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing, October 2018 [Early access]Aditya Mathur and Nils Tippenhauer. A Water Treatment Testbed for Research and Training on ICS Security, Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on Cyber-Physical Systems for Smart Water Networks, CPS Week, Vienna, Austria, April 2016.Jonathan Goh, Sridhar Adepu, Khurum Nazir Junejo, and Aditya Mathur. A dataset to support research in the design of secure water treatment systems, Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on Critical Information Infrastructures Security, October 10--12, 2016, Paris, France. 
