Kihong Park Associate Professor of Computer Science Joined department: 1996 EducationBA, Seoul National University, Management (1988) MS, University of South Carolina, Computer Science (1990) PhD, Boston University, Computer Science (1996) Prof. Park's research centers on design and control issues in high-speed multimedia networks including deployable IP QoS, scalable network security, and robust distributed systems. He has published in major networking venues including ACM SIGCOMM, ACM SIGMETRICS, IEEE ICNP, and IEEE INFOCOM, and has edited two books "Self-Similar Network Traffic and Performance Evaluation" (Wiley-Interscience 2000) and "The Internet as a Large-Scale Complex System" (Oxford University Press 2005) with Walter Willinger at AT&T Research. His doctoral thesis, "Ergodicity and mixing rate of one-dimensional cellular automata" (advisor: Peter Gacs), was on a problem in probability theory going back to von Neumann, with applications to fault-tolerance in large-scale systems. Prof. Park was a Presidential University Fellow at Boston University, a recipient of the NSF CAREER Award, a Fellow-at-Large of the Santa Fe Institute, and served on several international program committees and government panels. He was chair of the NSF/SFI Workshop on The Internet as a Large-Scale Complex System, held at the Santa Fe Institute in March 2001. He served on the editorial boards of IEEE Communications Letters and Computer Networks. His research has been supported by grants from government and industry including Army, DARPA, ETRI, Intel, NSF, SFI, Sprint, and Xerox. Selected PublicationsS. Choi, K. Park and C. Kim, "On the Performance Characteristics of WLANs: Revisited", Proceedings of the ACM SIGMETRICS 2005, pp. 97-108, 2005A. Lomonosov, M. Sitharam and K. Park, "Network QoS Games: Stability vs Optimality Tradeoff", Journal of Computer and System Sciences, Volume 69, pp. 281-302, 2004K. Park and W. Willinger (eds.), "The Internet as a Large-Scale Complex System", SFI Studies in the Sciences of Complexity, Oxford University Press, 2005 
