Wojciech Szpankowski Saul Rosen Distinguished Professor of Computer Science Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering (courtesy)Joined department: 1985 EducationMS, Technical University of Gdansk, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (1970) PhD, Technical University of Gdansk, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (1980) Wojciech Szpankowski is Saul Rosen Professor of Computer Science and Electrical and Computer Engineering at Purdue University. He received his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Gdansk University of Technology. He held several Visiting Professor/Scholar positions, including McGill University, Canada, Stanford, Hewlett-Packard Labs, INRIA, Universite de Versailles, Universite de Bourgone, Dijon, Universite de Marne-la-Vallee, Ecole Polytechnique, France, University of Canterbury, New Zealand, Johann Wolfgang Goethe-University Frankfurt, Paris 13, France, and the Newton Institute, Cambridge, UK. He is a Fellow of IEEE, the Erskine Fellow, and 2010 recipient of the Humboldt Research Award. His research interests cover analysis of algorithms, information theory, bioinformatics, analytic combinatorics, and stability problems of distributed systems. He published the book "Average Case Analysis of Algorithms on Sequences", John Wiley & Sons, 2001. Szpankowski has been a guest editor and an editor of several technical journals, including Theoretical Computer Science, ACM Transaction on Algorithms, Algorithmica, IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, and Combinatorics, Probability, and Computing. In 2008 he launched the interdisciplinary Institute for Science of Information whose mission is to extend classical information theory to modern settings, including knowledge discovery and information extraction from massive datasets. He is the Director of the newly established NSF Science and Technology Center for Science of Information. None Selected PublicationsP. Flajolet, W. Szpankowski, and B. Vallee, "Hidden Word Statistics", Journal of the ACM, 53, 1-37, 2006.M. Koyuturk, Y. Kim, S. Subramaniam, W. Szpankowski, and A. Grama, "Detecting conserved interaction patterns in biological networks", J. Computational Biology, 13, 1299-1322, 2006.G. Park, H. Hwang, P. Nicodeme, W. Szpankowski, "Profile of Tries", SIAM J. Computing, 38, 1821-1880, 2009 
