Ahmed Sameh Samuel D. Conte Professor Emeritus of Computer Science Joined department: 1997 EducationPhD, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, (1968) Ahmed Sameh is the Samuel D. Conte Professor of Computer Science. His current research interests include numerical linear algebra, and the design and performance analysis of parallel numerical algorithms needed in various science and engineering applications. He has served on the editorial boards of: IEEE Transactions on Computers, Computing, SIAM Journal on Scientific and Statistical Computing, Parallel Computing, Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing, Computer Physics Communications, International Journal of High Speed Computing, Numerical Linear Algebra with Applications, IEEE Computing in Science and Engineering, and International Journal of Parallel Programming. He joined Purdue in 1997 as Head of Computer Science, after being head of computer science at the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, and the holder of the William Norris Chair for Large-Scale Computing. He was also a faculty member in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, from 1968 to 1991, and 1992-93. During his tenure at Illinois, he served as an associate director, and director, of the Center for Supercomputing Research and Development (CSRD). He is a Fellow of ACM, IEEE, AAAS, SIAM, and IACM. He has also received the IEEE's 1999 Harry Goode Award for "seminal and influential work in parallel numerical algorithms. Selected PublicationsA. Klinvex, F. Saied, and A. Sameh, "Parallel Implementations of the trace minimization scheme TraceMIN for the sparse symmetric eigenvalue problem", Computers and Mathematics with Applications, 2012, Elsevier, doi:10.1016/j.camwa.2012.06.011M. Sathe, O. Schenk, B. Ucar, and A. Sameh, "A Scalable Hybrid Linear Solver Based on Combinatorial Algorithms", in Combinatorial Scientific Computing, pp. 95-127, 2012, Editors: U. Nauman and O. Schenk, CRC PressM. Manguoglu, M. Koyuturk, A. Sameh, and A. Grama, "Weighted Matrix Ordering and Parallel Banded Preconditioners for Iterative System Solvers", SIAM J. on Sc. Comp.Vol. 32, pp. 1201-1216, 2010 
