 Stphane Bressan Homepage Teaching Research Publications Biography Contact Me Teaching I teach database management, database design and tuning, data warehousing, logic programming and discrete mathematics. Read More Research I study the search, extraction, collection and cleaning, integration and fusion, analysis, anonymization and dissemination of data. Read More Publications I have authored and co-authored more than 100 research articles in international peer reviewed conferences and journals. Read More Biography I am Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science of the School of Computing at the National University of Singapore . Read More Dedomenology Late Peter Naur coined the Danish and Swedish translation of computer science as the neologism datalogi. The term and its English version Datalogy are Anglicism constructed from the English word data and the English suffix -logy, meaning science. Datalogy is therefore by construction a synonym of data science. Currently, Datalogy is rather used as a synonym of data analysis. Looking further into the its apparent etymology, datalogy unfortunately looks like the composition of the Latin word data (feminine participle of the verb given), meaning "given", and the Greek word logos () meaning word or discourse. As such it suggest the science or study of data. A more coherent construction, using a Greek root, would be dedomenology, with the Greek verb didomi () meaning give and its participle dedomenon (). We use the term dedomenology to refer to the study of the issues related to the search, extraction, collection and cleaning, integration and fusion, analysis, anonymization and dissemination of data. Contact Me My office is located on the third floor of the COM1 building of the School of Computing of the National University of Singapore (COM1-03-20) Mailing address: School of Computing, National University of Singapore, 13 Computing Drive, 117417, Singapore. Telephone number: (+65) 65 16 35 43 email me Copyright: 2016 Stphane Bressan ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Design: adapted from TEMPLATED under the Creative Commons Licence . 
