 NUS Computing Current UG MySoC Email Student Staff Alumni Sidebar Main Menu About Programmes Student Life Research Entrepreneurship Industry Quicklinks Current UG MySoC Email Student Staff Alumni About Departments Industry Advisory Committee Management Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty Photo Directory Admin Photo Directory Expert Directory News Corporate Relations Giving Careers Contact Us Programmes Undergraduate Computer Science Information Systems Computer Engineering Business Analytics Information Security Special Programmes Double Major Minors Resources for Current Students Graduate PhD in Computer Science PhD in Information Systems MSc+PhD (by Research) Master's in Computer Science Master's in Information Systems Master's in Infocomm Security Master's in Artificial Intelligence Master's in Business Analytics Graduate Certificates Graduate Certificate in Computing Foundations Part-time & Executive Education Bachelor of Technology Advanced Computing for Executives Student Life About Us Internships Student Leadership Programme Financial Support/Assistance Student Wellness and Wellbeing Career Services Professional Workshop Student Clubs/Interest Groups Contact Us Research Research Centres Research Areas Entrepreneurship Leadership The Furnace Alumni Companies Funding Opportunities Awards Innovation Research Centres News & Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Relations Contact Us Search ... Home Dept. of Computer Science Biography CHEN Tsuhan CHEN Tsuhan Distinguished Professor Deputy President (Research and Technology) PhD in Electrical Engineering, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California MS in Electrical Engineering , California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California BSc in Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University COM1-03-04 651 64544 Research Areas Media Artificial Intelligence Research Interests Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Multimedia Coding and Retrieval Biometric Authentication Profile Prof. Chen Tsuhan is the Deputy President (Research and Technology) and Distinguished Professor at National University of Singapore (NUS). He also serves as the Chief Scientist of AI Singapore, a national programme in artificial intelligence. Prof. Chen is a renowned expert in pattern recognition, computer vision and machine learning. He joined NUS from Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, United States, where he had been the David E. Burr Professor of Engineering since 2009. From 2009 to 2013, when he served as Director, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Cornell, he promoted the School to top ranking positions and launched several initiatives to boost innovation as well as foster research and teaching excellence. He also directed the Advanced Multimedia Processing Laboratory. From 1997 to 2008, Prof. Chen was a Professor with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA, where he served as the Associate Department Head from 2007 to 2008. Prof. Chen was the Cheng Tsang Man Chair Professor and Dean of the College of Engineering (CoE) at the Nanyang Technological University (NTU) from 2015 to 2017. He championed faculty recruitment and pioneered support schemes at the NTU CoE to encourage inter-school multidisciplinary programmes, aligned with the domain areas identified in RIE2020. Prof. Chen was appointed the Editor-in-Chief for IEEE Transactions on Multimedia in 2002-2004. He was elected to the Board of Governors, 2007-2009, and a Distinguished Lecturer, 2007-2008, both with the IEEE Signal Processing Society. Prof. Chen received the Charles Wilts Prize for outstanding independent research at the California Institute of Technology in 1993. He was a recipient of the US National Science Foundation CAREER Award from 2000 to 2003. He received the Benjamin Richard Teare Teaching Award in 2006, the Eta Kappa Nu Award for Outstanding Faculty Teaching in 2007, both at the Carnegie Mellon University, and the Michael Tien Teaching Award in 2014 at the Cornell University. Prof. Chen has published more than 300 technical papers and holds close to 30 US patents. He is a member of the Phi Tau Phi Scholastic Honor Society, a Fellow of IEEE, and a Fellow of the Institute of Engineers, Singapore. He earned his PhD degree in electrical engineering from the California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California, USA, in 1993. Current Projects AI Singapore Selected Publications An empirical study of language CNN for image captioning J Gu, G Wang, J Cai, T Chen International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) 2017 Querying Users as Oracles in Tag Engines for Personalized Image Tagging Amandianeze Nwana, T Chen IEEE MultiMedia, 2017 In the shadows, shape priors shine: using occlusion to improve multi-region segmentation Y Kihara, M Soloviev, T Chen IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern (CVPR) 2016 Robust low-dose CT perfusion deconvolution via tensor total-variation regularization R Fang, S Zhang, T Chen, PC Sanelli IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging 2015 3D reasoning from blocks to stability Z Jia, AC Gallagher, A Saxena, T Chen IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence (PAMI) 2015 You are here: Mimicking the human thinking process in reading floor-plans H Chu, D Ki Kim, T Chen IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) 2015 A mixed bag of emotions: Model, predict, and transfer emotion distributions KC Peng, T Chen, A Sadovnik, AC Gallagher IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern (CVPR) 2015 Kinship classification by modeling facial feature heredity R Fang, AC Gallagher, T Chen, A Loui IEEE International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP), 2013 Spoken attributes: Mixing binary and relative attributes to say the right thing A Sadovnik, A Gallagher, D Parikh, T Chen IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) 2013 Automatic discovery of groups of objects for scene understanding C Li, D Parikh, T Chen IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) 2012 Awards & Honours 2017, received the Robert M Janowiak Outstanding Leadership and Service Award 2014, received the Michael Tien Teaching Award at the Cornell University 2013-2014, served as President of the ECE Department Head of Association 2012-2013, served as Vice Preseident of the ECE Department Head of Association 2007-2009, elected to the Board of Governors with the IEEE Signal Processing Society 2007-2008, elected as Distinguished Lecturer with the IEEE Signal Processing Society 2007, received the Eta Kappa Nu Award for Outstanding Faculty Teaching at the Carnegie Mellon University 2006, received the Benjamin Richard Teare Teaching Award at the Carnegie Mellon University 2000-2003, recipient of the US National Science Foundation CAREER Award, titled "Multimodal and Multimedia Signal Processing" Teaching (2018/2019) JavaScript is currently disabled. Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi . Undergraduate Programmes Computer Science Information Systems Computer Engineering Business Analytics Information Security Special Programmes Undergraduate Brochure Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Financial Aid Graduate Programmes PhD in Computer Science PhD in Information Systems Master's in Computer Science Master's in Information Systems Master's in Infocomm Security Master's in Artificial Intelligence Master's in Business Analytics Graduate Certificates Graduate Certificate in Computing Foundations Part-time & Executive Education Bachelor of Technology Advanced Computing for Executives Organisation About Dept. of Computer Science Dept. of Information Systems and Analytics Industry Advisory Committee Management Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty Photo Directory Admin Photo Directory Expert Directory News Corporate Relations Giving Careers Resources MySoC Email Student Staff Events Calendar IVLE Library Alumni Facilities & Services Student Jobs NUS School of Computing Computing 1 13 Computing Drive Singapore 117417 +65 6516 2727 Contact Us Directions Organisation About Dept. of Computer Science Dept. of Information System and Analytics Industry Advisory Committee Management Staff Directory Faculty Photo Directory Admin Photo Directory News Corporate Relations Giving Careers Resources MySoC Email Student Staff Events Calendar IVLE Library Alumni Facilities & Services Student Jobs IMIN National University of Singapore . All Rights Reserved. Legal Branding guidelines Contact us JavaScript is currently disabled. Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi .
