 NUS Computing Current UG MySoC Email Student Staff Alumni Sidebar Main Menu About Programmes Student Life Research Entrepreneurship Industry Quicklinks Current UG MySoC Email Student Staff Alumni About Departments Industry Advisory Committee Management Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty Photo Directory Admin Photo Directory Expert Directory News Corporate Relations Giving Careers Contact Us Programmes Undergraduate Computer Science Information Systems Computer Engineering Business Analytics Information Security Special Programmes Double Major Minors Resources for Current Students Graduate PhD in Computer Science PhD in Information Systems MSc+PhD (by Research) Master's in Computer Science Master's in Information Systems Master's in Infocomm Security Master's in Artificial Intelligence Master's in Business Analytics Graduate Certificates Graduate Certificate in Computing Foundations Part-time & Executive Education Bachelor of Technology Advanced Computing for Executives Student Life About Us Internships Student Leadership Programme Financial Support/Assistance Student Wellness and Wellbeing Career Services Professional Workshop Student Clubs/Interest Groups Contact Us Research Research Centres Research Areas Entrepreneurship Leadership The Furnace Alumni Companies Funding Opportunities Awards Innovation Research Centres News & Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Relations Contact Us Search ... Home Dept. of Computer Science Biography Guo Charng Rang GUO Charng Rang Associate Professor (Practice) Program Director, National Cybersecurity Research & Development Lab (NCL) D.Phil. (University of Oxford) COM1-03-03 651 62803 Research Areas Security Research Interests Applied Cybersecurity Privacy Cryptography Profile Guo Charng Rang is an Associate Professor at the School of Computing at the National University of Singapore and the Programme Director of the National Cybersecurity R&D; Lab (NCL). NCL is a national lab funded by the National Research Foundation hosted in NUS School of Computing. The objective is to support the Singapore cybersecurity community in R&D; and education. To this end, NCL runs a cluster of more than 200 computing machines and provides cloud services and other higher level services to the community. In particular, NCL develops simulated enterprise network with vulnerabilities that has a wide range of applications, such as usage by education institutes to conduct cybersecurity lessons. The lab was officially launched in Feb 2015, and has supported more than 70 projects from academia, industries and government agencies and achieved full utilization after around a year. Almost all the universities and a number of polytechnics in Singapore are involved in the NCL initiatives, conducting lessons, performing research, or collaborating in other projects. A/Prof Guo oversees the development and operation of NCL, while the other two faculty members in NUS SoC, A/Prof Chang Ee-Chien and A/Prof Liang Zhenkai, oversee the research aspects of the lab. Prior to joining NUS, A/Prof Guo works in DSO National Laboratories and Defence Science and Technology Agency for more than 20 years, specializing in cybersecurity, in particular, in cryptography and trusted system. Current Projects National Cybersecurity R&D; Lab Selected Publications On Solvability of Ternary Quadratic Forms, Proceedings of London Mathematics Society, 70(1995) 241 - 263 On the Zeros of the Derivative of the Riemann Zeta Function , Proceedings of the London Mathematics Society, 72(1996) 28 - 62 The Distribution of the logarithmic derivatives of the Riemann Zeta Function , Proceedings of the London Mathematics Society, 72(1996) 1 - 27 On the Zeros of z (s) and z (s) , Journal of Number Theory, Vol 54, Issues 2, 206 210. Analysis of RFID Mutual Authentication Protocols, IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference, 2009. Awards & Honours Teaching (2018/2019) JavaScript is currently disabled. Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi . Undergraduate Programmes Computer Science Information Systems Computer Engineering Business Analytics Information Security Special Programmes Undergraduate Brochure Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Financial Aid Graduate Programmes PhD in Computer Science PhD in Information Systems Master's in Computer Science Master's in Information Systems Master's in Infocomm Security Master's in Artificial Intelligence Master's in Business Analytics Graduate Certificates Graduate Certificate in Computing Foundations Part-time & Executive Education Bachelor of Technology Advanced Computing for Executives Organisation About Dept. of Computer Science Dept. of Information Systems and Analytics Industry Advisory Committee Management Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty Photo Directory Admin Photo Directory Expert Directory News Corporate Relations Giving Careers Resources MySoC Email Student Staff Events Calendar IVLE Library Alumni Facilities & Services Student Jobs NUS School of Computing Computing 1 13 Computing Drive Singapore 117417 +65 6516 2727 Contact Us Directions Organisation About Dept. of Computer Science Dept. of Information System and Analytics Industry Advisory Committee Management Staff Directory Faculty Photo Directory Admin Photo Directory News Corporate Relations Giving Careers Resources MySoC Email Student Staff Events Calendar IVLE Library Alumni Facilities & Services Student Jobs IMIN National University of Singapore . All Rights Reserved. Legal Branding guidelines Contact us JavaScript is currently disabled. Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi .
