 Professor of Computer Science Deputy Director Advanced Robotics Center Vice Dean (Research) School of Computing School of Computing National University of Singapore 13 Computing Drive Singapore 117417 Republic of Singapore Office: Bldg. COM2, Rm. 03-52 Fax: +65 6779-4580 Web: http://motion.comp.nus.edu.sg/ To prospective students: We are looking for students to work on exciting research in robotics and AI ( self-driving cars , flying cameras , robots interacting with humans ,... ). If you are driven to explore new ideas and are passionate about research, you are welcome to contact me. Biography David Hsu is a professor of computer science at the National University of Singapore (NUS) and a member of NUS Graduate School for Integrative Sciences & Engineering. He received PhD in computer science from Stanford University . At NUS, he co-founded NUS Advanced Robotics Center and has been serving as the Deputy Director. He held visiting positions at MIT Aeronautics & Astronautics Department and CMU Robotics Institue. He is an IEEE Fellow. His research interests span robotics, AI, and computational structural biology. In recent years, he has been working on robot planning and learning under uncertainty and human-robot collaboration. He, together with colleagues and students, won the Humanitarian Robotics and Automation Technology Challenge Award at International Conference on Robotics & Automation (ICRA) 2015, the RoboCup Best Paper Award at International Conference on Intelligent Robots & Systems (IROS) 2015, and the Best Systems Paper Award at Robotics: Science & Systems (RSS), 2017. More information on his research is available on the MAP research group web site . He has chaired or co-chaired several major international robotics conferences, including WAFR 2004 and 2010, RSS 2015, and ICRA 2016. He was an associate editor of IEEE Transactions on Robotics. He is currently serving on the editorial board of Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research. Recent Activities Best Paper Award finalist, ACM/IEEE International Conference on Human Robot Interaction (HRI) , 2018. Best Systems Paper Award, Robotics: Science & Systems (RSS) , 2017. General Co-Chair, IEEE International Conference on Robotics & Automation (ICRA) , 2016. General Chair, Robotics: Science & Systems (RSS) , 2016. Editorial Board Member, Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research , 2011 -- present. Program Chair, Robotics: Science & Systems (RSS) , 2015. The mediocre teacher tells. The good teacher explains. The superior teacher demonstrates. The great teacher inspires. ---William Arthur Ward Last modified: Sun Aug 5 23:29:23 +08 2018 
