 Djordje Jevdjic Assistant Professor address: School of Computing National University of Singapore 13 Computing Drive COM2-03-26 Singapore 117417 e-mail: lastName@comp.nus.edu.sg I'm an assistant professor at the School of Computing at the National University of Singapore. Prior to joining NUS, I spent a year at Microsoft Research in Redmond working with Karin Strauss and her fantastic team on the DNA storage project (check this exciting video ), and before that I was a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Washington, working in the SAMPA group led by Luis Ceze and Mark Oskin. I received my PhD degree from the School of Computer and Communication Sciences at EPFL, Switzerland, where I worked in Parallel Systems Architecture Laboratory (PARSA) with Prof. Babak Falsafi . Do you think you deserve to be remembered forever? Please give us your most memorable photos and we will encode them into DNA to make sure they last for millions of years! My research focuses on increasing the efficiency of server systems for datacenters to support sustainable growth of important global services during the ongoing environmental crisis. I seek to minimize the energy footprint and maximize the compute and storage density of server systems through better system integration, the use of emerging technologies, specialization of various system components for prevalent applications, and disciplined approximation. Current focus : approximate computing, systems for AI, DNA data storage, specialized storage systems for multimedia, memory systems for servers (including gigantic DRAM caches), 3D integrated circuits, near-memory processing, virtual memory support for big data, and server systems modeling and evaluation. Want to know more? You can check out my (hopefully updated) resume and research statement , as well as my Google Scholar page . I am actively looking for motivated PhD students, postdocs, interns, and research assistants to work with me on a variety of exciting problems. Please send me an e-mail if you are interested in working with me. Education Ph.D. Computer Science, School of Computer and Communication Sciences , Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne , Lausanne, Switzerland (2009-2015) M.Sc. Computer Science, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering , University of Belgrade, Serbia (2007-2009) B.Sc. Electrical and Computer Engineering, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering , University of Belgrade, Serbia (2003-2007) Work Experience National University of Singapore, School of Computing Assistant Professor, 06/2018 - present Microsoft Research, Redmond Visiting Researcher, 04/2017 - 04/2018 University of Washington, Seattle Postdoctoral Research Fellow, 10/2015 - 04/2017 Parallel Systems Architecture Lab, EPFL, Switzerland Research and Teaching Assistant, 09/2009 - 09/2015 University of Belgrade, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Belgrade, Serbia Teaching Assistant, 01/2008 - 09/2009 Microsoft Development Center Serbia, Belgrade, Serbia 11/2007 - 02/2008 Barcelona Supercomputing Center, Barcelona, Spain Intern, 09/2007 - 11/2007 Selected Publications Clustering Billions of Reads for DNA Data Storage (selected for NIPS Highlights) Cyrus Rashtchian, Konstantin Makarychev, Miklos Racz, Siena Ang, Djordje Jevdjic , Sergey Yekhanin, Luis Ceze, and Karin Strauss Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS), December 2017 Approximate Storage for Encoded and Encrypted Videos Djordje Jevdjic , Karin Strauss, Luis Ceze, and Henrique Malvar 22nd Intl. Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS) April 2017 Near-Memory Address Translation Javier Picorel, Djordje Jevdjic , and Babak Falsafi. 26th Intl. Conference on Parallel Architectures and Compilation Techniques (PACT) September 2017 Fat Caches for Scale-Out Servers Djordje Jevdjic Unison Cache: A Scalable and Effective Die-Stacked DRAM Cache Djordje Jevdjic A Case for Specialized Processors for Scale-Out Workloads Michael Ferdman, Almutaz Adileh, Onur Kocberber, Stavros Volos, Mohammad Alisafaee, Djordje Jevdjic , Cansu Kaynak, Adrian Daniel Popescu, Anastasia Ailamaki, and Babak Falsafi IEEE Micro Top Picks, Vol. 34, 2014 Die-Stacked DRAM Caches for Servers: Hit Ratio, Latency, or Bandwidth? Have It All with Footprint Cache Djordje Jevdjic From A to E: Analyzing TPC's OLTP Benchmarks - The obsolete, the ubiquitous, the unexplored Djordje Jevdjic Quantifying the Mismatch between Emerging Scale-Out Applications and Modern Processors Michael Ferdman, Almutaz Adileh, Onur Kocberber, Stavros Volos, Mohammad Alisafaee, Djordje Jevdjic , Cansu Kaynak, Adrian Daniel Popescu, Anastasia Ailamaki, and Babak Falsafi ACM Transactions on Computer Systems (TOCS), Vol. 30, Issue 4, November 2012 Thermal Characterization of Cloud Workloads on a Power-Efficient Server-on-Chip Dragomir Milojevic, Sachin Idgunji, Djordje Jevdjic , Emre Ozer, Pejman Lotfi-Kamran, Andreas Panteli, Andreas Prodromou, Chrysostomos Nicopoulos, Damien Hardy, Babak Falsafi, and Yiannakis Sazeides. 30th Intl. IEEE Conference on Computer Design (ICCD), September-October 2012, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Scale-out Processors Pejman Lotfi-Kamran, Boris Grot, Michael Ferdman, Stavros Volos, Onur Kocberber, Javier Picorel Obando, Almutaz Adileh, Djordje Jevdjic , Sachin Idgunji, Emre Ozer, and Babak Falsafi 39th Intl. Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA), June 2012, Portland, Oregon, USA. Clearing the Clouds: A Study of Emerging Workloads on Modern Hardware (best paper award) Michael Ferdman, Almutaz Adileh, Onur Kocberber, Stavros Volos, Mohammad Alisafaee, Djordje Jevdjic , Cansu Kaynak, Adrian Daniel Popescu, Anastasia Ailamaki, and Babak Falsafi 17th Intl. Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS), March 2012, London, UK. Miscellaneous I'm very passionate about classical piano and choral music. Please come to my next concert to hear and enjoy some uplifting Gospel music: 03/06/2017, 7:30pm @University Presbyterian Church (4540 15th Ave NE, Seattle) 
