 Menu Bio People Papers Talks Search Sam Burden Asst Prof in UW ECE Latest Posts NSF CPS grant August 30, 2018 Lillian Ratliff and I have just received a new award from the NSF Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) program for our proposal on certifiable reinforcement learning for CPS. Greetings from the beach! May 22, 2018 As the absent co-organizer of last years meeting, it was a pleasure to attend Dynamic Walking (DW) this year doubly so since it was at such an outrageously beautiful location! AMP Open House January 24, 2018 The lab I share with folks from Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Rehabilitation Medicine officially opened! Papers at ICRA, HSCC, SPIE February 15, 2017 Andrew Pace will present our papers on different ways to differentiate contact-rich dynamics at HSCC in Pittsburgh, PA and ICRA in Singapore; in the meantime, you can read pre-prints of the ICRA paper and the HSCC paper. AMP Center launched October 15, 2016 I am thrilled to announce that weve officially launched our new Center for Amplifying Movement and Performance! S-STEM Grant September 01, 2016 I am thrilled to join the team, led by UW CoE Assoc Dean / EE Prof Eve Riskin, that just received an NSF S-STEM grant to expand innovative academic redshirts programs! Farewell to Ryan September 01, 2016 Postdoc Ryan Robinson has accepted a position with Spaceflight Industries starting Sep 1 2016, hell be an Engineer with the Attitude Determination and Control Team. Rattlesnake Ledge August 12, 2016 Spurred by Boras infectious enthusiasm, my graduate students (Bora, Yana, and Andrew), postdoc (Ryan), and I hiked Rattlesnake Ledge. AMP Center SRI funded August 01, 2016 The UW CoE Strategic Research Initiative (SRI) proposal I wrote in collaboration with Kat Steele, Eric Rombokas, Chet Moritz, and Val Kelly was funded! This award will enable us to launch an interdisciplinary Center for Analysis of Motion and Performance in Humans and Machines (AMP Center) based out of our new motion analysis facility in Wallace Hall (photo above shows renovation progress as of July 26 2016). Greetings from summer camp! June 08, 2016 Its no secret that Dynamic Walking (DW) is my favorite academic meeting. Its everything that the massive, 20+ parallel-track conferences I frequent (which I wont name, but will link to) arent. Faculty mix with students, everyone attends the talks, there are lively group discussions, and, amazingly, tons of time for socializing and recreating. 2018 Sam Burden. Powered by Jekyll using the So Simple Theme . 
