 Lee Mong Li Janice School of Computing National University of Singapore Computing 1, 13 Computing Drive Singapore 117417 Email: leeml@comp.nus.edu.sg Tel: (65) 6516 2905 Fax: (65) 6779 4580 Lee Mong Li is a Professor in the School of Computing at the National University of Singapore. She has extensive experience in data management, including data cleaning and data fusion (combining data from disparate sources), and in analysis of semistructured and spatio-temporal data. She has published more than 150 papers in major database conferences and journals, and is the co-author of two books on ``Designing Semi-structured Database'' and ``Temporal and Spatio-Temporal Data Mining''. She plays a key role in several multi-disciplinary government funded research projects to build systems that are practical and deployable. She is actively involved in the research community, holding various key roles and serving on the Program Committees of prestigious database and data mining conferences. Mong Li received her Ph.D., M.Sc. and B.Sc. (Hons 1) degrees in Computer Science from the National University of Singapore. She was awarded the IEEE Singapore Information Technology Gold Medal for being the top student in the Computer Science program in 1989. She was a visiting Fellow at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA 1999, and Consultant at QUIQ USA in 2000. She was the co-recipient of Singapore's President Technology Award in 2014. Research Publications Chronological Order My publications from the DBLP Bibliography Server Ongoing Projects Medical AI Projects Social Network Analytics We have multiple openings for postdoctoral fellows and research assistants to work on system development and research issues related to healthcare and social media. Please email me or Wynne Hsu your CV and research statement if interested. (Posted on 21 December 2018) Completed Projects Professional Activities Graduate Students Resources Teaching Courses Taught Undergraduate Student Projects You are the visitor No. 116094 (since 13-Sep-94 17:04:00 SGT). Click here for complete statistics of access including breakdowns by top-level domain, host name, and date. 
