 Toggle navigation Kuldeep Meel Home CV Publications Software Collaborators Kuldeep S. Meel Sung Kah Kay Assistant Professor Affiliate, Institute of Data Science Computer Science Department, School of Computing National University of Singapore meel@comp.nus.edu.sg Please consult my calendar before suggesting a meeting time. Research Group Website Research Interests Students Teaching Awards & Honors Selected Publications Service News Short Bio Kuldeep Meel is an Assistant Professor in the Computer Science Department of School of Computing at National University of Singapore, where he holds Sung Kah Kay Assistant Professorship . The broader goal of his research is to advance artificial intelligence techniques, which utilize ubiquity of data and formal methods, to enable computing to deal with increasingly uncertain real-world environments. Open Positions Looking for candidates with strong background in CS/Mathematics/Physics for post-doc for the project: Beyond NP Revolution. Read advertisement for more details. Two post-doc positions available in the broad area of applying machine learning to SAT solvers, approximate counting techniques, and CP. Read advertisement for more details. We are always looking for highly motivated Ph.D. students, research assistants with time commitment of at least 6 months and summer internship for exceptional undergraduate interns in our group. Read this before sending me an email. [top] Research Interests Constrained Sampling and Counting Overview Paper Tutorial Slides Tutorial Video Artificial Intelligence Formal Methods for Verification of AI Systems Interpretable and Explainable Models [top] Students & Postdocs Bishwamittra Ghosh, PhD Student (since: Spring 2018) Yash Pote, PhD Student (since: Spring 2019) Priyanka Golia, PhD Student@IITK (since: Fall 2018), co-advised with Subhajit Roy (IITK) Lorenzo Ciampiconi, MS@Politecnico di Milano (expected: May 2019) Rahul Gupta, BTech+MTech@IITK (expected: May 2019) , co-advised with Subhajit Roy (IITK) Shubham Sharma, BTech+MTech@IITK (expected: May 2019), co-advised with Subhajit Roy (IITK) Mohimenul Kabir, Research Assistant (since: September 2018) Himanshu Arora, Research Assistant (since: Feb 2019) Do Andre Khoi Nguyen, Undergraduate Researcher (since: May 2018) Yang Suwei, Undergraduate Researcher (since: July 2018) Alumni Alexis de Colnet, MComp@NUS (Graduated: Dec 2018) Dr. Mate Soos, Research Fellow (March 2018 -- June 2018) Bhavishya, Summer Intern (May 2018 - July 2018) [top] Teaching CS 6283: Advanced Topics in Computer Science: Logic in AI CS4244: Knowledge-Based Systems (Spring 2018), (co-taught with Dr. Henry Chia ) [top] Awards and Honors Sung Kah Kay Assistant Professorship 2018 Ralph Budd Award for research in Engineering. This award, established in 1935, is given annually for the best doctoral thesis in the School of Engineering. Honorable mention for 2018 ACP Doctoral Dissertation Award Lodieska Stockbridge Vaughn Fellowship (2016-17) , awarded to upto five students university wide whose record at Rice shows evidence of outstanding achievement and promise. 2014 Outstanding Masters Thesis Award from the Vienna Center for Logic and Algorithms Best Student Paper Award , 21st International Conference on Principles and Practice of Constraint Programming (CP-2015) IBM PhD Fellowship (2016-17) Andrew Ladd Memorial Excellence in Computer Science Fellowship (2013-14) Heidelberg Laureate Forum 2015 Invitee [top] Selected Publications Google Scholar 1 BIRD: Engineering an Efficient CNF-XOR SAT Solver and its Applications to Approximate Model Counting Mate Soos and Kuldeep S. Meel Proceedings of AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), 2019 . Abstract Given a Boolean formula F, the problem of model counting, also referred to as #SAT is to compute the number of solutions of F. Model counting is a fundamental problem in artificial intelligence with a wide range of applications including probabilistic reasoning, decision making under uncertainty, quantified information flow, and the like. Motivated by the success of SAT solvers, there has been surge of interest in the design of hashing-based techniques for approximate model counting for the past decade. We profiled the state of the art approximate model counter ApproxMC3 and observed that over 99.99% of time is consumed by the underlying SAT solver, CryptoMinisat. This observation motivated us to ask: Can we design an efficient underlying CNF-XOR SAT solver that can take advantage of the structure of hashing-based algorithms and would this lead to an efficient approximate model counter? The primary contribution of this paper is an affirmative answer to the above question. We present a novel architecture, called BIRD, to handle CNF-XOR formulas arising from hashing-based techniques. The resulting hashing-based approximate model counter, called ApproxMC3, employs the BIRD framework in its underlying SAT solver, CryptoMinisat. To the best of our knowledge, we conducted the most comprehensive study of evaluation performance of counting algorithms involving 1896 benchmarks with computational effort totaling 86400 computational hours. Our experimental evaluation demonstrates significant runtime performance improvement for ApproxMC3 over ApproMC2. In particular, we solve 648 benchmarks more than ApproMC2, the state of the art approximate model counter and for all the formulas where both ApproMC2 and ApproxMC3 did not timeout and took more than 1 seconds, the mean speedup is 284.40 -- more than two orders of magnitude. BibTex PDF Code 2 Not All FPRASs are Equal: Demystifying FPRASs for DNF-Counting Kuldeep S. Meel, Aditya A. Shrotri, and Moshe Y. Vardi Proceedings of International Conference on Constraint Programming (CP), 2018 . Invited to Constraints journal Abstract The problem of counting the number of solutions of a DNF formula, also called #DNF, is a fundamental problem in artificial intelligence with applications in diverse domains ranging from network reliability to probabilistic databases. Owing to the intractability of the exact variant, efforts have focused on the design of approximate techniques for #DNF. Consequently, several Fully Polynomial Randomized Approximation Schemes (FPRASs) based on Monte Carlo techniques have been proposed. Recently, it was discovered that hashing-based techniques too lend themselves to FPRASs for #DNF. Despite significant improvements, the complexity of the hashing-based FPRAS is still worse than that of the best Monte Carlo FPRAS by polylog factors. Two questions were left unanswered in previous works: Can the complexity of the hashing-based techniques be improved? How do the various approaches stack up against each other empirically? In this paper, we first propose a new search procedure for the hashing-based FPRAS that removes the polylog factors from its time complexity. We then present the first empirical study of runtime behavior of different FPRASs for #DNF. The result of our study produces a nuanced picture. First of all, we observe that there is no single best algorithm that outperforms all others for all classes of formulas and input parameters. Second, we observe that the algorithm with the worst time complexity, solves the largest number of benchmarks. BibTex PDF 3 Algorithmic Improvements in Approximate Counting for Probabilistic Inference: From Linear to Logarithmic SAT Calls Supratik Chakraborty, Kuldeep S. Meel, and Moshe Y. Vardi Proceedings of International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI), 2016 . Abstract Probabilistic inference via model counting has emerged as a scalable technique with strong formal guarantees, thanks to recent advances in hashing-based approximate counting. State-of-the-art hashing-based counting algorithms use an {\NP} oracle, such that the number of oracle invocations grows linearly in the number of variables n in the input constraint. We present a new approach to hashing-based approximate model counting in which the number of oracle invocations grows logarithmically in $n$, while still providing strong theoretical guarantees. Our experiments show that the new approach outperforms state-of-the-art techniques for approximate counting by 1-2 orders of magnitude in running time. PDF Code 4 On Computing Minimal Independent Support and Its Applications to Sampling and Counting Alexander Ivrii, Sharad Malik, Kuldeep S. Meel, and Moshe Y. Vardi Proceedings of International Conference on Constraint Programming (CP), 2015 . Best Student Paper Award Abstract Constrained sampling and counting are two fundamental problems arising in domains ranging from artificial intelligence and security, to hardware and software testing. Recent approaches to approximate solutions for these problems rely on employing SAT solvers and universal hash functions that are typically encoded as XOR constraints of length n/2 for an input formula with n variables. As the runtime performance of SAT solvers heavily depends on the length of XOR constraints, recent research effort has been focused on reduction of length of XOR constraints. Consequently, a notion of Independent Support was proposed, and it was shown that constructing XORs over independent support (if known) can lead to a significant reduction in the length of XOR constraints without losing the theoretical guarantees of sampling and counting algorithms. In this paper, we present the first algorithmic procedure (and a corresponding tool, called MIS) to determine minimal independent support for a given CNF formula by employing a reduction to group minimal unsatisfiable subsets (GMUS). By utilizing minimal independent supports computed by MIS, we provide new tighter bounds on the length of XOR constraints for constrained counting and sampling. Furthermore, the universal hash functions constructed from independent supports computed by MIS provide two to three orders of magnitude performance improvement in state-of-the-art constrained sampling and counting tools, while still retaining theoretical guarantees. PDF Code 5 Distribution-Aware Sampling and Weighted Model Counting for SAT Supratik Chakraborty, Daniel J. Fremont, Kuldeep S. Meel, Sanjit A. Seshia, and Moshe Y. Vardi Proceedings of AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), 2014 . Abstract Given a CNF formula and a weight for each assignment of values to variables, two natural problems are weighted model counting and distribution-aware sampling of satisfying assignments. Both problems have a wide variety of important applications. Due to the inherent complexity of the exact versions of the problems, interest has focused on solving them approximately. Prior work in this area scaled only to small problems in practice, or failed to provide strong theoretical guarantees, or employed a computationally-expensive maximum a posteriori probability (MAP) oracle that assumes prior knowledge of a factored representation of the weight distribution. We present a novel approach that works with a black-box oracle for weights of assignments and requires only an {\NP}-oracle (in practice, a SAT-solver) to solve both the counting and sampling problems. Our approach works under mild assumptions on the distribution of weights of satisfying assignments, provides strong theoretical guarantees, and scales to problems involving several thousand variables. We also show that the assumptions can be significantly relaxed while improving computational efficiency if a factored representation of the weights is known. PDF Code Full list of publications is available here [top] Service Organizer: 1st Workshop on Probabilistic Reasoning and Formal Methods . Co-organized with S. Akshay (IIT Bombay) Committee Member: The Committee on Probability and Statistics in the Physical Sciences, C(PS)^2 (2018-20) Program Committee: IJCAI 2019, SAT 2019, AIES 2019, AAAI 2019, CoDS-COMAD 2019, IJCAI 2018, AAAI 2018, CP 2018, FAW 2018, CP 2017, CAV-16 Artifact Evaluation Reviewer: CACM (2014, 2018), Artificial Intelligence (2018), JAIR (2018,2019), Algorithms (2018), ACM TOPLAS (2017), IJCAR (2018), NFM (2018), SAT (2017, 2016) TACAS 2017, CAV 2015, FoSSaCS 2015, DAC 2014 Part of 12 member AAAI 2015 Futures Focus Group tasked with creation of vision for AAAI [top] News 11 February 2019 Honored to be appointed Visiting Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at IIT Bombay 02 February 2019 Our paper on network reliability is accepted to The 13th International Conference on Applications of Statistics and Probability in Civil Engineering 26 January 2019 Our paper on weighted and project sampling is accepted at TACAS 2019 . Congratulations Rahul and Shubham. 22 January 2019 Attending AAAI 2019 and AIES 2019 next week. Our group has four papers (3 at AAAI to be presented on Jan 30 and 31; the paper at AIES will be presented on Jan 27). All news Kuldeep Meel: The New CS Professor Kuldeep Meel: High-Risk, High-Reward Research [top] Recruitment I am looking for highly motivated Ph.D. students and interns (with time commitment of at least 6 months) in our group. If you are a student at NUS, feel free to drop by my office or schedule a meeting with me. (See my calendar ). Otherwise, please send me an email with your CV if you are interested. Make sure your subject contains the word "olleh" and you should include reviews of two of the papers published in the previous 3 years at AAAI/IJCAI/CP/SAT/CAV conferences. The reviews should be in the body of the email (and not as pdf). Furthermore, the body of your email should contain the phrase: "Here are two papers that I have reviewed". You should also provide reason for your choice of the papers. A strong background in statistics, algorithms/formal methods and prior experience in coding is crucial to make a significant contribution to our research. [top] 
