 Wei Tsang Ooi Associate Professor Department of Computer Science National University of Singapore Home Publications Talks Services Courses Students Goodies research interest Multimedia Systems/ Networking/ Interaction My research work falls under three major areas: multimedia, networking, and interaction. Current topics of research include 3D streaming, zoomable video streaming, and networked virtual environments. I am leading the Jiku project, under the NExT Search Center. I am part of IPAL , a joint lab between NUS, I2R, CNRS (France), and UJF (France); and am affiliated with IDMI , the Interactive and Digital Media Institute of NUS. recent papers MoViMash: Online Mobile Video Mashup with Mukesh Kumar Saini, Raghudeep Gadde, Shuicheng Yan, MM 2012, [ PDF ] With the proliferation of mobile video cameras, users can now easily capture videos of live performances and socially share them with friends and public. As an attendee of such live performances typically has limited mobility, each video camera is able to capture only from a range of restricted viewing angles and distance, producing a rather monotonous video clip. At such performances, however, videos are captured by multiple users, likely from different angles and distances. These videos can be combined to produce a more interesting and representative mashup of the live performances for broadcasting and sharing. In this work, we present MoViMash, a framework for automatic online video mashup that makes smooth shot transitions to cover the performance from diverse perspectives. Shot transition and shot length distributions are learned from professionally edited videos. Further, we introduce view quality assessment in the framework to filter out shaky, occluded, and tilted videos. more publications.. recent courses Media Technology Project CS3283/4 is a 2-semester project class where students work in teams to build cool applications, applying sound software engineering practices and principles. I have also previously taught CS2105 , an introductory course on computer networking, CS4344 , an advanced course on networking and systems support for multi-player games, CS5229 , a graduate-level course where we look into classic papers on the Internet, and CS2106 an introductory undergraduate course on operating systems. recent talks The Best Interactive System is a Non-Interactive System A keynote given at The 1st International Workshop on Interactive Content Consumption (WSICC), June 2013. You can download the slides as PDF . more talks.. Guest Editorship MTAP SI Springer's Multimedia Tools and Applications (MTAP) Special Issue on Interactive Content Consumption more services.. biography About Me I received my B. Sc. (Hon.) degree from the Department of Information Systems and Computer Science (now School of Computing ), NUS in 1996, and Ph. D. from Cornell University , Ithaca, NY in 2001. I spent a year as postdoc at Berkeley Multimedia Research Center in U.C. Berkeley , before re-joining NUS in 2002. I came from Alor Setar , Malaysia. View C.V. in PDF format (last updated: Jan 2019) Contact AS6, #05-14, Department of Computer Science, National University of Singapore, Singapore 117417. ooiwt@comp.nus.edu.sg TEL: +65 6516 4463 FAX: +65 6779 1610 Created using Twitter Bootstrap and mostly vim . 
