 Enter search text All the UW Current site All the UW Current site Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Give to ECE Quick Links Menu News + Events Events Calendar Research Colloquium Lytle Lecture Series Graduation Capstone Fair Electrical Engineering Kaleidoscope The Integrator Newsletter People Faculty Staff Emeritus Faculty Adjunct Faculty Affiliate Faculty Academics Bachelor of Science Combined BS-MS Masters & Ph.D. Professional Masters Program Non-Degree Options Research Biosystems Computing and Networking Data Sciences Photonics and Nano Devices Power and Energy Systems Robotics and Controls Research Centers Research Labs Research Projects Innovation Engineering Entrepreneurial Capstone Washington Nanofabrication Facility Makerspace: Accelerating Innovation SNUPI: Home Monitoring Systems BluHaptics: Underwater Robots with Human Touch WiBotic: Wireless Power for Robots Get Involved Researchers Industry Sponsors Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Give to UW ECE About Message from the Chair Office of the Chair Contact Us ABET Accreditation News + Events Events Calendar Research Colloquium Lytle Lecture Series Graduation Capstone Fair Electrical Engineering Kaleidoscope The Integrator Newsletter People Faculty Staff Emeritus Faculty Adjunct Faculty Affiliate Faculty Academics Bachelor of Science Combined BS-MS Masters & Ph.D. Professional Masters Program Non-Degree Options Research Biosystems Computing and Networking Data Sciences Photonics and Nano Devices Power and Energy Systems Robotics and Controls Research Centers Research Labs Research Projects Innovation Engineering Entrepreneurial Capstone Washington Nanofabrication Facility Makerspace: Accelerating Innovation SNUPI: Home Monitoring Systems BluHaptics: Underwater Robots with Human Touch WiBotic: Wireless Power for Robots Get Involved Researchers Industry Sponsors Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Give to UW ECE About Message from the Chair Office of the Chair Contact Us ABET Accreditation Tai-Chang Chen Senior Lecturer Home People Tai-Chang Chen Tai-Chang Chen is teaching faculty in the Department of Electrical Engineering, where he has offered more than 14 different undergraduate and graduate courses. Chen has been involved in developing new curricula for various universities and has also worked to develop the format of lecture-based online courses. He has implemented a PC-USB interface for laboratory instruments, which allows students in an online learning environment benefit from hands-on laboratory experiences. Chen has worked in the Electrical Engineering Microfabrication Lab as the Lab manager, and was in charge of III-V nitride semiconductor MOCVD laboratory. His research interest is in the development of micro/nano-technology for interdisciplinary engineering and scientific applications in material science, thin films, sensors on a chip, and wearable sensors and sensor systems. Research Interests Micro/nano-fabrication, laser micromachining, III-V semiconductors, sensors and sensor systems, materials analysis. Latest Projects Micromachined Ultra-Miniature Ion Source and Mass Spectrometer Micromachined Faraday Cup Array Using Deep Reactive Ion Etching Solid State Integrated Radiation Sensor Development Intracellular Neuronal Recording with Flexible Micro-machining Probe Implants Representative Publications TC Chen and TG Stoebe, An Electron Energy Loss Spectroscopy (EELS) Study of Thermal Effects in LiF:Mg,Cu,P Phosphors, J. Phys.:Conden. Matter, Vol. 11, pp. L341-347, 1999. TC Chen and RB Darling , Laser Micromachining of Microfluidic Materials by High Precision Pulsed Near and Mid Ultraviolet Nd:YAG Lasers, J of Materials Processing Technology 198, 248-253, (2008). TC Chen and RB Darling, Fundamentals of laser ablation of the materials used in microfluidics, ed. Dr. Mojtaba Kahrizi, Rijeka, Croatia, ISBN 978-953-307-906-6 (2012). K Poochinda, TC Chen, and TG Stoebe Structural, optical and electrical properties of GaN and InGaN films grown by MOCVD, J. of Crystal Growth, 272, 460-465 (2004) RB Darling and TC Chen, Microfabricated components for miniaturized chemical analysis systems, Proceedings of the SPIE - The International Society for Optical Engineering, v 5062, n 1, 2003, p 863-72. TC Chen, K Poochinda, and TG Stoebe Innovational Radiation Sensor by Integrating Al2O3:C Optically Stimulated Luminescent Dosimeter and GaN Detectors, RPD, 119, 380-385 (2006) Phone 206-221-5388 Email tcchen@u.washington.edu Mail 238 CSE Seattle, WA 98195 Education Ph.D. Materials Science and Engineering, 1997 University of Washington MS, Materials Science and Engineering, 1993 University of Washington BS, Materials Science and Engineering, 1988 National Hsing-Hua University, Taiwan Connect with ECE: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn University of Washington Be boundless Accessibility Contact Us Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms 2019 University of Washington | Seattle, WA 
