 David S. Rosenblum Home CV Papers Talks Patents Research Students Conferences Teaching PGP Contact David S. Rosenblum David S. Rosenblum is Provost's Chair Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the National University of Singapore . He is currently the Director of the NUS-Singtel Cyber Security Research and Development Laboratory , which is part of the NUS Smart Nation Research Cluster . He also directs the Felicitous Computing Institute , and he is a member of the NUS Graduate School for Integrative Sciences and Engineering . From 2013 to 2016 he was Dean of the NUS School of Computing . He received his PhD in 1988 from the Department of Electrical Engineering at Stanford University , and he did his undergraduate studies at North Texas State University (now the University of North Texas ). From 1988 to 1996 he was a Member of the Technical Staff at AT&T Bell Laboratories (now AT&T Labs Research ) in Murray Hill, New Jersey. After leaving Bell Labs, from 1996 to 2001 he was on the Faculty of the Department (now School) of Information and Computer Science at the University of California, Irvine . From 2001 to 2003 he was on leave from UC Irvine working as Chief Technology Officer and Principal Architect of PreCache, a startup company developing technology in the area of publish/subscribe networking. And from 2004 to 2011 he was Professor of Software Systems in the Department of Computer Science at University College London . Professor Rosenblum's research has addressed a wide range of problems spanning the breadth of the software development life cycle, including software specification, architecture, design, verification, testing, analysis and maintenance. His current research focuses on probabilistic verification of systems, and applications of machine learning for the design and testing of mobile, context-aware adaptive systems for ubiquitous computing and the Internet of Things. In 1997 he received a CAREER Award from the US National Science Foundation for his work on distributed component-based software, and from 2004-2009 he held a Wolfson Research Merit Award from the Royal Society. He is a Fellow of the ACM and IEEE and has received two test-of-time awards for his research. He was previously Editor-in-Chief of the ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology (ACM TOSEM) and an Associate Editor for the IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering (IEEE TSE). He has served as Member-at-Large, Vice Chair, Chair and Past Chair of the ACM Special Interest Group on Software Engineering (ACM SIGSOFT), and in 2018 he received the ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Service Award . More information is available in a current CV . Major Awards ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Service Award (2018) Inaugural ACM SIGSOFT Impact Paper Award (2008) ICSE Most Influential Paper Award (2002) Fellowships and Affiliations Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery (FACM) Member of the ACM Special Interest Group on Data Communication (ACM SIGCOMM) Member of the ACM Special Interest Group on Mobility of Systems, Users, Data and Computing (ACM SIGMOBILE) Member of the ACM Special Interest Group on Software Engineering (ACM SIGSOFT) Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (FIEEE) Senior Member of the Singapore Computer Society (SMSCS) Current Professional Activities Provost's Chair Professor of Computer Science Director of the NUS-Singtel Cyber Security Research and Development Laboratory Director of the Felicitous Computing Institute Member of the NUS Graduate School for Integrative Sciences and Engineering (NGS) Deputy Chair of the ACM Distinguished Member Committee Member of the Steering Committee of the International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) Recent Book 40 Editions of ICSEthe ruby anniversary celebration (ICSE 2018) Recent Papers Evaluating Recommender System Stability with Influence-Guided Fuzzing (AAAI 2019) Verifying the long-run behavior of probabilistic system models in the presence of uncertainty Yamilet R. Serrano Llerena , Marcel Bhme , Marc Brnink , Guoxin Su , David S. Rosenblum ESEC/FSE 2018 Proceedings of the 2018 26th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering,2018 frames are not supported Learning Structures of Interval-Based Bayesian Networks in Probabilistic Generative Model for Human Complex Activity Recognition ( Pattern Recognition , 2018) A Non-Parametric Generative Model for Human Trajectories (IJCAI-ECAI 2018) A Comparative Study of Decision Diagrams for Real-time Model Checking (SPIN 2018) Using Branch Frequency Spectra to Evaluate Operational Coverage (APSEC 2017) Probabilistic model checking of perturbed MDPs with applications to cloud computing Yamilet R. Serrano Llerena , Guoxin Su , David S. Rosenblum ESEC/FSE 2017 Proceedings of the 2017 11th Joint Meeting on Foundations of Software Engineering,2017 frames are not supported ProEva: Runtime Proactive Performance Evaluation Based on Continuous-Time Markov Chains (ICSE 2017) Mining performance specifications Marc Brnink , David S. Rosenblum FSE 2016 Proceedings of the 2016 24th ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Foundations of Software Engineering,2016 frames are not supported A Bandit Approach for Intelligent IoT Service Composition across Heterogeneous Smart Spaces Nirandika Wanigasekara , Jenny Schmalfuss , Darren Carlson , David S. Rosenblum IoT'16 Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on the Internet of Things,2016 frames are not supported Urban Water Quality Prediction Based on Multi-Task Multi-View Learning (IJCAI 2016) Reliability of Run-Time Quality-of-Service evaluation using parametric model checking Guoxin Su , David S. Rosenblum , Giordano Tamburrelli ICSE '16 Proceedings of the 38th International Conference on Software Engineering,2016 frames are not supported An Iterative Decision-Making Scheme for Markov Decision Processes and Its Application to Self-Adaptive Systems (ETAPS FASE 2016) Asymptotic Perturbation Bounds for Probabilistic Model Checking with Empirically Determined Probability Parameters ( IEEE TSE , 2016) Fusing Social Networks with Deep Learning for Volunteerism Tendency Prediction (AAAI 2016) Fortune Teller: Predicting Your Career Path (AAAI 2016) From Action to Activity: Sensor-Based Activity Recognition ( Neurocomputing , 2016) Recent Talks The Challenges of Probabilistic Thinking (keynote talk at ICFEM 2017) The Power of Probabilistic Thinking (keynote talk at ASE 2016) Known Unknowns: Testing in the Presence of Uncertainty (talk at ACM SIGSOFT FSE 2014 Visions & Challenges Track) Last updated 14 January 2019 
