 Prateek Saxena Hey! I am an Assistant Professor in the Computer Science Department at National University of Singapore . I work on computer security, and its intersection with formal methods and programming languages. My present research is on machine learning security, cryptocurrencies, trusted computing, and binary analysis. I got my PhD in Computer Science from the University of California, Berkeley in 2012 and visited Microsoft Research Redmond during the summer of 2015. I am fortunate to work with several bright PhD students: Shweta Shinde , Loi Luu , Shruti Tople , Enrico Budianto , Yaoqi Jia (co-advised), Shiqi Shen, Teodora Baluta, and Deli Gong (co-advised). Our group members (present and alumni) are actively exploring spinoffs, originating from their research. See Zilliqa , KyberNetwork , Dexecure , TrueBit and SmartPool (non-profit) as examples. I have co-founded Anquan . For our released software projects, please see the software release (or publications ) webpage. Thanks to Google, Intel, Symantec, sponsors of the Crystal Center , MoE-Singapore, DSO Labs, NRF-Singapore, for their generous and continued support to our research! Computer Science Division COM2-03-40, School of Computing National University of Singapore Email: prateeks at comp dot nus dot edu dot sg Thanks for join us for the deep learning security workshop , the research forum , and blockchain and security workshops in the past. More events like this are coming up this year. New! I am looking for highly independent PhD students, interns and postdocs in our group. Our focus is presently on deep learning security, probabilistic reasoning, and binary analysis (pleass see our publications). Please send me an email with your CV if you are interested. A strong background in math / statistics, PL / verification, security, or large systems-building is necessary for our research. We welcome candidates who will commit 6+ months on focussed research at the outset, and generally unable to respond to requests otherwise. Interested NUS undergrads: Please set aside a year of rigorous work if you wish to do your UROP or final-year thesis projects with me. Publications Software Teaching CV Google Scholar Fix A Meeting? 
