 NUS Computing Current UG MySoC Email Student Staff Alumni Sidebar Main Menu About Programmes Student Life Research Entrepreneurship Industry Quicklinks Current UG MySoC Email Student Staff Alumni About Departments Industry Advisory Committee Management Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty Photo Directory Admin Photo Directory Expert Directory News Corporate Relations Giving Careers Contact Us Programmes Undergraduate Computer Science Information Systems Computer Engineering Business Analytics Information Security Special Programmes Double Major Minors Resources for Current Students Graduate PhD in Computer Science PhD in Information Systems MSc+PhD (by Research) Master's in Computer Science Master's in Information Systems Master's in Infocomm Security Master's in Artificial Intelligence Master's in Business Analytics Graduate Certificates Graduate Certificate in Computing Foundations Part-time & Executive Education Bachelor of Technology Advanced Computing for Executives Student Life About Us Internships Student Leadership Programme Financial Support/Assistance Student Wellness and Wellbeing Career Services Professional Workshop Student Clubs/Interest Groups Contact Us Research Research Centres Research Areas Entrepreneurship Leadership The Furnace Alumni Companies Funding Opportunities Awards Innovation Research Centres News & Events Contact Us Industry Corporate Relations Contact Us Search ... Home Dept. of Computer Science Biography Ravi SUPPIAH Ravi SUPPIAH Lecturer M.Sc. (Embedded Systems, Nanyang Technological University) B.Eng. (Electrical & Computer Engineering, National University of Singapore) COM2-03-36 651 66561 Research Areas Research Interests Embedded Systems Design & Development Assistive and Rehabilitative Robotics Brain Computer Interface Mr Ravi has wide range of research interests, both in the Computing and Engineering fields, as well as those related to Educational Pedagogy. He hopes to be able to able to use his research in the area of BCI to help those facing challenges caused by neural disorders. Profile Mr Ravi Suppiah is currently a Lecturer with the School of Computing in NUS. He is part of the multidisciplinary Computer Engineering Degree Programme which develops the students computing as well as engineering skills. He teaches modules like EPP1 and EPP2 which are groundbreaking in its teaching pedagogy due to its intensive hands-on experiential approach. In these modules students enjoy the excitement of creating amazing and complex projects in their very first year in school. He also teaches modules like Computer Organization and Real-time Operating Systems which form the foundations for the students to learn more complex modules later on. He is also an active member of the Makers Lab and also conducts several workshops for Secondary School and JC students to expose them to the exciting world of Computing. Mr Ravi Suppiah graduated from the National University of Singapore with a BEng in Electrical & Computer Engineering in 2004. Upon graduation he first joined Republic Polytechnic as one of its pioneer educators. In RP, besides teaching a wide range of subjects, he also took on the role of being the Embedded Systems Division Lead under the Technology Development Committee. While serving this role, he was part of the development team that developed a Zigbee-based Wireless Sensor Network using the T-Kernel platform. This project was a joint-effort between RP, Institute of Infocomm Research (I2C) and Renesas System Solutions. It was showcased in the 2006 TRON show. During his time in RP, Mr Ravi pursued the MSc in Embedded Systems to further develop his skillsets and knowledge in his passion. In 2006, he took on the role of an Embedded Firmware Engineer with Hewlett Packard Singapore. His work in HP involved 2 main groups in the R&D; Lab of the Business Printing Division (BPD). They are the Board Support Group (BSG) and Ink Delivery Systems (IDS). His involvement in BSG required him to develop a base boot-up code to be loaded onto the board. This boot-up code will ensure that all necessary HW components are working properly and that the OS is successfully loaded onto the system. Developing the Boot-Code involves developing and upgrading various low-level drivers like SPI, I2C, MICCI2, NAND together with other protocols that are needed. These drivers are developed based on the associated blocks in the custom Digital ASICs. He also took on the role of being the FW lead for developing Energy Star related features for the printers. This involved discussing the features in a multi-disciplinary group and brainstorming new ideas before actually implementing them. The work done in this area was very important in order to comply with the Energy requirements of several countries before the final products could be shipped to them. Mr Ravi took on the role of Lecturer in NTUs School of Computer Science and Engineering in 2012. In NTU, he has conducted modules such as Microprocessor-Based Systems Design, Microcontroller Programming, Digital Systems Design and FPGA Development. He was also the course coordinator for the Multi-Disciplinary Project (MDP) module that is a critical project module for the students. Besides the conducting of classes, he also took responsibilities in supervising projects for the BEng FYP as well as MSc Dissertation. Besides his academic duties, he was also actively involved in the Outreach Committee where they organized a wide range of activities to engage Secondary School, Polytechnic and JC students. His current research towards the fulfilment of his PhD, is in the area of Brain-Computer Interface (BCI). His focus is on using BCI for Biometric Identification. This is a relatively unexplored area and holds a lot of potential for secure authentication and verification. Besides his current work in NUS, Mr Ravi is also passionate volunteer at SINDA. He believes that it is everyones responsibility to give back to society in whatever way they can. He volunteers his time to conduct free classes and workshops for many children, especially, those from the lower-income families. He hopes that by sharing his own personal journey with these children, they will learn to overcome their own challenges and achieve success in their lives. His efforts were greatly recognized when Senior-Minister-of-State Ms Indranee Rajah wrote a glowing Facebook Post about his efforts and praised him for coming forward to help the society. PM Lee Hsien Loong also spoke about Mr Ravi and his efforts during the General Election television broadcast in 2015. Current Projects Selected Publications Ravi Suppiah, A. P. Vinod, Biometric identification using single channel EEG during relaxed resting state, IET Biometrics, Online ISSN 2047-4946, DOI: 10.1049/iet-bmt.2017.0142 R. Suppiah and M. F. Bin Abbas, "Introducing embedded systems development on a robotics-based platform," 2014 IEEE International Conference on Teaching, Assessment and Learning for Engineering (TALE), Wellington, 2014, pp. 103-108. doi: 10.1109/TALE.2014.7062597 R. Suppiah and N. S. Q. Shaun, "Introducing microprocessor-based systems design on an ARM softcore using a FPGA and a teaching auxiliary board," 2016 IEEE Global Engineering Education Conference (EDUCON), Abu Dhabi, 2016, pp. 751-756. doi: 10.1109/EDUCON.2016.7474636 R. Suppiah, "Motor-imagery analysis without the use of sensorimotor cortex signals," 2015 10th International Conference on Information, Communications and Signal Processing (ICICS), Singapore, 2015, pp. 1-5. doi: 10.1109/ICICS.2015.7459975 Awards & Honours Teaching (2018/2019) CG1111: Engineering Principles and Practice I CS2100: Computer Organisation CG2271: Real-Time Operating Systems CG1112: Engineering Principles and Practice II JavaScript is currently disabled. Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi . Undergraduate Programmes Computer Science Information Systems Computer Engineering Business Analytics Information Security Special Programmes Undergraduate Brochure Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Financial Aid Graduate Programmes PhD in Computer Science PhD in Information Systems Master's in Computer Science Master's in Information Systems Master's in Infocomm Security Master's in Artificial Intelligence Master's in Business Analytics Graduate Certificates Graduate Certificate in Computing Foundations Part-time & Executive Education Bachelor of Technology Advanced Computing for Executives Organisation About Dept. of Computer Science Dept. of Information Systems and Analytics Industry Advisory Committee Management Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty Photo Directory Admin Photo Directory Expert Directory News Corporate Relations Giving Careers Resources MySoC Email Student Staff Events Calendar IVLE Library Alumni Facilities & Services Student Jobs NUS School of Computing Computing 1 13 Computing Drive Singapore 117417 +65 6516 2727 Contact Us Directions Organisation About Dept. of Computer Science Dept. of Information System and Analytics Industry Advisory Committee Management Staff Directory Faculty Photo Directory Admin Photo Directory News Corporate Relations Giving Careers Resources MySoC Email Student Staff Events Calendar IVLE Library Alumni Facilities & Services Student Jobs IMIN National University of Singapore . All Rights Reserved. Legal Branding guidelines Contact us JavaScript is currently disabled. Please enable it for a better experience of Jumi .
