 if !vml endif Associate Professor and Vice Dean, Student Life email: gtan@comp.nus.edu.sg Tel: (65) 6516 6276 Gary Tan was a pioneer in the Direct Honours Programme of the National University of Singapore and received his B.Sc ( 1st class Honours ) from NUS . He received his M.Sc and Ph.D from the University of Manchester , U.K. He has been lecturing at the School of Computing , National University of Singapore since 1990, and was the recipient of Teaching Awards of the Faculty of Science in both 1992 and 1998, the Teaching Excellence Awards from the School in 1999 and 2002, and the NUS Annual Teaching Excellence Award for 03/04, 04/05 and 06/07. He is also on the ATEA Honour roll for 2008. His research interests include parallel and distributed computing, scheduling and load balancing, declarative multiprocessors, parallel and distributed (interactive) simulation and High Level Architecture. He is currently working on Symbiotic Simulation and Traffic Simulation. He is a member of the Modelling and Simulation Group which is part of the Computer Systems Lab . He has served as Chair of the NUS PROSE committee, a cross-faculty agency tasked with promoting the use of good English in the University. He was also a Resident Fellow of Kent Ridge Hall (1993-2003) , and was Master of Sheares Hall (2003-2013). He is now Vice Dean of Student Life at the school. He has had project collaborations with KTH (Royal Institute of Technology) ,Sweden , and FOI (Swedish Defence Research Agency), and is a collaborator with SMART , and Beihang University . He serves on the program committee of Distributed Simulation and Real-time Systems Symposium, and is on the Editorial Board of the International Journal of Modelling, Simulation, and Scientific Computing (World Scientific). He is a member of ASIASIM federation, and was Co-chair of AsiaSim2013 ( held in Singapore in November 2013). He was Program Chair of DSRT 2016 held in London, and Conference Co-chair of SIMUTOOLS 2016 held in Prague. He is President of the Society of Simulation and Gaming of Singapore ( SSAGsg ). Research Students supervised Current Students Vu Vinh An Ph.D Strategy Simulation for Traffic Simulation M. Shalihin bin Othman Ph.D Framework for Predictive Evacuation Past Students Yu Jun Masters High Level Architecture/DDM Ng Wee Ngee Accel Masters Distributed Supply Chain Simulation Karthik Shenoy Masters Parallelism in HLA environment Hu Yu Masters Automated Federate Compatibility Matcher Zhao Na Masters Object Exchange Template in Distributed Supply Chain Zhang Gong Masters Peer to Peer Computing Hausi Horatiu Intern HLA Federation across Continents Liu Peng Masters A UML-based Tool for Designing HLA Federates Anders Persson Intern Migration and Load Balancing in HLA-based Distributed Simulation Laura Andreescu Exchange A Study of Spread of Bird Flu Shahab Mokarizadeh Intern Composability of Simulation Models Akbari Shahmirzadi Intern Composability of Simulation Models Seth Hetu Ph.D A Symbiotic Framework for Crisis Management Simulation Xu Yan Ph.D Performance Improvements for Real-time Traffic Simulation Research Projects Principal Investigator, Object and Data Management in Distributed Real-time Simulation, University Research Grant (Nov 98 - Jun 02) Principal Investigator, Cluster-based Distributed Simulation Using HLA, research collaboration with CSO, MINDEF (Oct 99 - Sep 02) Collaborator, Performance Improvements of Web-Servers, University Research Grant Principal Investigator, Distributed Supply Chain Simulation, University Research Grant (Dec 01 - Nov 03) Principal Investigator, An Architecture for Developing Reusable Simulation Model Components, Defence Innovative Research Programme , DSTA grant (May 02 - Apr 04) Principal Investigator, Composability of Simulation Models, University Research Grant (Feb 05 - Jan 08) Principal Investigator, A Framework for Symbiotic Simulation of Crisis Management (Sep 07 - Aug 10) Principal Investigator, Parallel, Scalable Transporation Simulation (June 12 Dec15) Principal Investigator, Future Urban Mobility II (Jun 16 Dec 17) Selected Publications Last Updated: 1 Nov 2017 
