 Skip to content Skip to main navigation Skip to first column Skip to second column Media Management Research Lab National University of Singapore Roger Zimmermann Thursday, 23 January 2015 08:00 administrator Director of the Media Management Research Lab (MMRL) Associate Professor of Computer Science at NUS Deputy Director of the Smart Systems Institute (SSI) Co-Director of the Centre of Social Media Innovations for Communities (COSMIC) Secretary of ACM SIGSPATIAL (2014-2017) Co-Founder of SecurEZ Labs Biography Roger Zimmermann is associate professor of Computer Science in the School of Computing at the National University of Singapore (NUS). He is also deputy director with the Interactive and Digital Media Institute (IDMI) at NUS and co-director of the Centre of Social Media Innovations for Communities (COSMIC), a research institute funded by the National Research Foundation (NRF) of Singapore. Prior to joining NUS he held the position of Research Area Director with the Integrated Media Systems Center (IMSC) at the University of Southern California (USC). He received his M.S. and Ph.D. degree from the University of Southern California in 1994 and 1998, respectively. Among his research interests are mobile video management, streaming media architectures, distributed and peer-to-peer systems, spatio-temporal data management and location-based services. Dr. Zimmermann is a Senior Member of IEEE and a member of ACM . He has co-authored a book, seven patents and more than two hundred-twenty conference publications, journal articles and book chapters in the areas of multimedia, GIS and information management. He has received funding from NSF (US), A*STAR (Singapore), NUS Research Institute (NUSRI), NRF (Singapore), and NSFC (China) as well as several industries such as Fuji Xerox, HP, Intel, and Pratt & Whitney. Dr. Zimmermann is on the editorial boards of the IEEE Multimedia Communications Technical Committee (MMTC) R-Letter and the Springer International Journal of Multimedia Tools and Applications (MTAP). He is also an associate editor for the ACM Transactions on Multimedia journal (ACM TOMM) and he has been elected to serve as Secretary of ACM SIGSPATIAL for the term 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2017. He has served on the conference program committees of many leading conferences and as reviewer of many journals. Recently he was the general chair of the ACM Multimedia Systems 2014 and the IEEE ISM 2015 conferences, and TPC co-chair of the ACM TVX 2017 conference. Research More information on multimedia, GIS and information management research can be found on the MMRL lab website at http://eiger.ddns.comp.nus.edu.sg . The list of publications is available here . Note that many of the ACM publications are enabled with the ACM Author-Izer service such that they can be downloaded directly and for free from the ACM Digital Library. The enabled publications are marked with a small ACM logo. The title links of these papers will re-direct a visitor to an ACM Author-Izer download page. Note: You must click through from the bibliography page here Additional Resources Roger Zimmermann's Google Scholar Citation count (mostly accurate), his DBLP page , his Microsoft Academic Search results (not accurate, includes results of other people with the same name), his ACM Author Page , his ResearchGate , and his Elsevier Mendeley page. His ORCID persistent digital identifier is 0000-0002-7410-2590 and his Researcher ID is D-7944-2015 . Follow me on Academia.edu Teaching Teaching information can be found here . Contact Information Campus address: School of Computing Department of Computer Science National University of Singapore Computing 1 13 Computing Drive Singapore 117417 Email: rogerz@comp.nus.edu.sg Phone: (65) 6516 7949 Fax: (65) 6779 4580 Office: AS6, #05-05 Recent News Articles... NSFC Proposal Approved Sypher Labs Raises Funding ACM Multimedia 2015 Web Site ACM SIGSPATIAL Secretary Start Prev 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Next End Page 1 of 22 Main Menu Home People Research Publications Courses Press Coverage Resources Administrator Who's Online We have2 guestsonline Latest News IEEE ISM 2014 Panel Keynote at PCM 2014 NEAT IP License with Sypher Labs Singapore Named No 1 by Lonely Planet Popular NUS-CALIT2 Workshop Multimedia Workshop "on Hot Topics in Multimedia Research" ACM MM 2009 Papers Accepted SIGIR 2008 Conference Research About DMRL News Sponsors Contact Us Copyright 2015 Media Management Research Lab. All Rights Reserved. Joomla! is Free Software released under the GNU/GPL License. Feed Entries 
