 Brian Johnson Washington Research Foundation Innovation Assistant Professor Home | About Me| Research| Publications| Research Group Power electronics play a foundational role in renewable energy systems, modern power grids, electric transportation, and computing systems to name a few examples. In my lab, we bridge an array of application domains (from Watts to MegaWatts) with the latest advances in theory to enable next-generation energy systems. Whether we are working on novel converter topologies, microgrid architectures, or analyzing the dynamics of converters in bulk power grids, our lab stands at the intersection of circuits, systems, and controls. To learn more about our work, see a list of our ongoing research topics and publications . News & Updates (Feb. 2019) I am helping organize a workshop on low-inertia power grids to be held on April 29th-30th on the UW campus. The website and registration link are here ( https://lowinertiagrids.ece.uw.edu ). (Feb. 2019) On February 20th, our group will be hosting a meeting of the local IEEE Power Electronics Society ( https://events.vtools.ieee.org/m/188742 ) here on the UW campus. Seshank Malap from Tektronix will discuss the new IsoVu probe and modern measurement techniques. I will also give an overview of UW's power electronics program. (Feb. 2019) Prof. Brian B. Johnson hosted Professor Dragan Maksimovic ( https://www.colorado.edu/faculty/maksimovic/ ) for his visit to the UW campus. He delivered a presentation on Advances in Power Electronics Enabled by Converter Topologies, Soft Switching Techniques, and Wide Bandgap Semiconductors. This event was sponsored by the Clean Energy Institute ( https://www.cei.washington.edu ). (Nov. 2018) Professor Brian B. Johnson leads Department of Energy -funded research to reduce cost of solar power electronics. Details here . (Nov. 2018) Professor Brian B. Johnson delivered a seminar to the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department at Oregon State University. Details here . (Nov. 2018) Professor Brian B. Johnson delivered a talk on low-inertia power grids at the 2018 Minnesota Power Systems Conference . (Nov. 2018) Professor Brian B. Johnson delivered a talk for the University of Washington's Clean Energy Institute. (Jan. 2018) UW, Tsinghua researchers explore challenges and opportunities for smart, renewable energy grids. Details here . Page generated 2019-02-18 00:19:20 Pacific Standard Time, by jemdoc . 
