 Klavins Lab Synthetic Biology Home People Publications Software Hardware Positions Multicellular Design Synthetic State Gene Circuit Characterization Protocols as Code Continuous Culture Self Organizing Systems About Eric Klavins, Professor The Klavins lab develops synthetic living systems, re-engineered organisms, and engineered parts for existing organisms. Our particular emphasis is on designing gene circuits and cell-cell communication systems that enable novel multicellular behaviors in bacteria or yeast. We take an engineering approach to this challenge, and are interested in the whole pathway from modeling and design of new systems to fabrication and testing of new living systems. TEDx: Programming Biology News 4/2018: Arjun Khakhar's paper on hormone responsive CRISPR transcription factors in plants, which he calls HACRs, has been published 10/2017: David Younger's new paper is now up on PNAS: High-throughput characterization of proteinprotein interactions by reprogramming yeast mating 6/2017: Our CRISPR/dCas9 paper was publlished in Nature Communications! 4/2017: New Paper on BioXRiv: A pre-zygotic barrier in yeast for engineering protein-protein interactions 11/2016: New Paper on BioXRiv: Synthetic Self-Destructive Altriuism 6/2016: Proud to announce the UW BIOFAB, an Aquarium-Enabled lab that will build your strains for you! 4/2016: Nick and Arjun highlighted in ACS Synthetic Biology and on the cover! 2/2016: Prof. Klavins has been promoted! He is now a Professor and not just an Associate Professor! 12/2015: Chris Takahashi defended his thesis! Congratulations Chris and we wish you luck in your future endeavors. Don't be a stranger! Open Positions We have positions available for postdoctoral scholars, graduate students, a programmer, a system administrator, and undergraduate assistants. See here for more information. Contact Info Address Klavins Lab University of Washington Campus Box 352500 Seattle, WA 98195 (206) 616-1743 Links UW BIOFAB Aquarium Electrical and Computer Engineering Computer Science and Engineering Bioengineering Center for Synthetic Biology #klavinslab 
