 Welcome CV Courses Links Media Welcome Associate Professor of the Practice of Computer Science Associate Chair, Department of Computer Science Curriculum Director, Information Science and Information Studies Levine Science Research Center, Office D310 Box 90129, Duke University Durham, NC 27708-0129 USA Office Phone: (919) 660-6524, Fax: (919) 660-6519 email: lucic at cs.duke.edu Administrative Assistant: Pamela Spencer, (919) 660-6500 As Associate Chair, I am responsible for the Departments External Relations, Publications & Website, and Outreach efforts. These activities provide a framework to insure the relevance and quality of the Department's research and teaching, and generates the necessary funding for Duke Computer Science to compete effectively with other universities as a national resource for research contributions and the production of the highest quality graduates. In addition, the inDuke Industrial Partners Program (in collaboration with Electrical & Computer Engineering) provides a conduit to the corporate information sciences community to facilitate personal interactions and to provide for technical information exchange. I also serve as the Faculty Curriculum Director of the Information Science + Information Studies Program ( ISIS ). The mission of ISIS is to study and create new information technologies and to analyze their impact on art, culture, science, commerce, society, and the environment. RECENT ACTIVITIES ISIS Certificate Program - Our mission is to study and create new information technologies and to analyze their impact on art, culture, science, commerce, society, and the environment. Duke Online Discourse Project - Researching the trade offs between privacy and accountability ISIS Mapping - Geospatial mapping for community development and global health Zawadi Africa - The Zawadi Africa Education Fund is a program designed to provide scholarships to academically gifted girls from disadvantaged backgrounds from Africa to pursue higher education in the US. WISER - The Women's Institute for Secondary Education and Research, WISER, will be the first model all-girls secondary boarding school and community center in Muhuru Bay, Kenya. WISER is dedicated to fostering a spirit of intellectual enthusiasm that will challenge girls to lead, serve, and ultimately reduce the gender equality gap in Kenyan society. Build African Schools - dedicated to building schools, installing electric power and providing computers and other educational equipment for children in Africa. Virtual Peace Project - brings together digital learning technologies and international humanitarian assistance efforts. Students and educators enter an immersive, multi-sensory game-based environment that simulates real disaster relief and conflict resolution conditions in order to learn first-hand the necessary tools for sensitive and timely crisis response. The Elements of Effective Photographs - I'm teaching a photography-related continuing education course this spring at the Center for Documentary Studies at Duke University. The schedule is 6:30-8:30p, Wednesday evenings beginning Feb 1 through March 21, 2012. The course is titled The Elements of Effective Photographs and is for anyone interested in learning to make compelling digital images. No previous photographic skill level is presumed or required. . If you are in the Durham, NC vicinity and are interested, you can register at the link above. Richard Lucic 2012 RALucic 
