 Alexander (Alex) Brodsky Professor Department of Computer Science Volgenau School of Engineering George Mason University 4400 University Drive, MS 4A5 Fairfax, Virginia 22030-4444 Office: 4418 Nguen Engineering Building Phone: 703-993-1529 Email: brodsky@gmu.edu Web: cs.gmu.edu/~ brodsky Office Hours (Spring 2018): Wednesday 5:00-6:00 PM - please verify Biosketch LinkedIn Current Research Interests: - Decision Support, Guidance and Optimization (DSGO) systems - DSGO applications, including to manufacturing, energy, power, sustainability and supply chain Prior Research Interests: - Constraint databases - Constraints for databases and secure information systems About Decision Guidance Overview of publications Google Scholar Research Gate Courses Regularly Taught: - CS 450 Database Concepts - CS-550 Database Management Systems - CS-787 Decision-Guidance Systems - INFS-740 Database Programming for the World-Wide Web Former PhD Students (as of Summer 2016): - Prof. Hanan Mengash , A Decision-Guided Group Package Recommender based on Multi-Criteria Optimization and Voting, defended in the Spring of 2016. Dr. Mengash is a computer science professor at Princess Nora Bin Abdul Rahaman Univeristy . - Prof. Hesham Altaleb , Market-based Decision Guidance for Electric Power Consortia, 2015. Dr. Altaleb is a Computer and Information Sciences professor at Muhammad Bin Saudi University. - Dr. John McDowal , A Framework for Optimal Service Composition and Execution Based on Business Process Management Notation (BPMN), 2014. Directed jointly with Professor Kerschberg . Dr. McDowal is a computer scientist at Booz-Allen-Hamilton. - Dr. Nathan Egge , Decision Guidance Query Language (DGQL): Algorithms based on Preprocessing and Continuous Approximations, 2014. Dr. Egge is currently a research staff member at the Mozilla Corporation. - Dr. Susan Farley, Top-k Algorithms for SimQL : A Decision Guidance Query Language Based on Stochastic Simulation, 2013. Dr. Farley is a computer scientist at Booz-Allen-Hamilton. - Prof. Chun-Kit Ngan, A Framework and Algorithms for Multivariate Time Series Analytics: Learning, Monitoring, and Recommendation, 2013. Directed jointly with Professor Lin. Dr. Ngan is a professor at Penn State University. - Dr. Guodong (Gordon) Shao, Decision Guidance for Sustainable Manufacturing, 2013. Directed jointly with Professor Ammann . Dr. Shao is a Computer Scientist working on decision support for Smart Manufacturing Systems at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). - Dr. Juan (Judy) Luo, Regression Learning in Decision Guidance Systems: Models, Languages and Algorithms, 2012. Dr. Luo works at George Mason University. - Dr. Khalid Alodhaibi , Decision-Guided Recommenders with Composite Alternatives, 2011. Dr. Alodhaibi is currently CIO and Executive Director of King Fahad Medical City, Saudi Arabia. - Dr. Lei Zhang, Securing the Information Disclosure Process, 2010. Directed jointly with Professor Jajodia . Dr. Zhang works at Google Corporation. - Prof. Malak Al- Nury , Service Composition Framework to Unify Simulation and Optimization in Supply Chains, 2010. Dr. Malak is a professor and chair of the Information Systems department at Effat University in Saudi Arabia. She is currently on a two-year assignment at MIT. - Prof. Csilla Farkas , Secure Databases: Constraints, Inference Channels and Monitoring Disclosures, 1999. Directed jointly with Professor Jajodia . Dr. Farkas is a professor at the University of South Carolina. - Dr. Jia Chen, Multityped Constraint Algebras and Mathematical Programming in Constraint Databases, 1999. - Dr. Victor Segal, Algorithms, Optimization and Implementation of Constraint Object-Oriented Database System, 1999. Dr. Segal currently is Principle System Engineer at MITRE Corporation. - Prof. Samuel Varas , On Optimal Constraint Decomposition, Monitoring and Management in Distributed Environments, 1998. Directed jointly with Professor Kerschberg . Dr. Varas is a professor at the Adolfo Ibanez University in Santiago, Chile. Current PhD Students - Mohan Krishnamoorthy , Manufacturing Processes: Languages and Algorithms for Descriptive, Predictive and Prescriptive Analytics. Directed jointly with Professor Menasce . - Roberto Levy, A Decision Guidance Framework for Energy Public Policy and Investment. - M. Omar Nachawati, Algorithms and Framework for a Decision Guidance Management System.. - Fernando Boccanera , Decision Guidance for Healthcare Individual and Group Policy . 
