 Home Clinical Trials Research People Publication Links Fun - Navigation - Home Clinical Trials Research People Publication Links Fun Technology to treat paralysis Motor paralysis from stroke or spinal cord injury can be severe and long-lasting, despite damage to a relatively small area of the nervous system. Our goal is to develop neuroprosthetic devices capable of bypassing these damaged areas and restoring volitional control of movement to paralyzed limbs. Our Research Clinical Trials Now Recruiting! Spinal lesion stained for GFAP (red) and microglia (green) Electrode tip imaged with Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) Neurons recorded from the brain and sorted with PCA Previous Next Restore Transcutaneous electrical stimulation is a non-invasive strategy to modulate spinal circuitry. Utilization of a unique waveform permits high-current electrical stimulation to reach spinal networks without causing discomfort. We are testing the immediate and lasting effects of this potentially break-through treatment for restoring upper extremity function in tetraplegics. Read More Rehabilitate We are investigating the optimal method for delivering non-invasive on skin spinal stimulation to improve standing and walking ability in people with spinal cord injury. We are also exploring the combined approach of intensive exercise and robotic technology with the electrical stimulation. Read More Reanimate We have demonstrated that spinal stimulation evoked arm movements after spinal cord injury. We are currently working on brain signal controlled spinal stimulation to reanimate arm movement after cervical spinal cord injury. In collaboration with Josh Smith, we are testing a completely implantable device capable of decoding brain signal and spinal stimulation for arm function. Read More Repair We are investigating whether intraspinal stimulation is capable of guiding spared pathways to functional targets after spinal cord injury. In collaboration with Phil Horner, we are also exploring the combined approach of stem cell therapies and electrical stimulation. Read More About Us We develop neuroprosthetic technology for the treatment of paralysis and other movement disorders. Our current projects include developing techniques to bypass damaged areas of the nervous system & restore control of movement to paralyzed limbs, promoting recovery and perhaps regeneration of damaged neural tissue, and testing methods for physical therapy and rehabilitation of movement disorders. Support our Work Much of our research if funded by generous donations from individuals and private foundations. If you would like to join us in our efforts to improve treatments for spinal cord injury and stroke, please use the link below and be sure to indicate 'Moritz Lab' in the comment field. Donate Contact PI: Chet Moritz Department of Rehabilitation Medicine University of Washington Lab Member Login Administrative Login Please contact moritlab@uw.edu if you experience any site-related issues. Copyright 2019 | Restorative Technologies Laboratory, University of Washington 
