 Jyh-Ming Lien Associate Professor Department of Computer Science George Mason University Table of Contents CV Teaching Research Selected publications Publications Contact info : Engineering Building 4442 Department of Computer Science George Mason University , MSN 4A5 Fairfax, VA, 22030, USA http://cs.gmu.edu/~jmlien/ jmlien@cs.gmu.edu phone: (703) 993-9546 (Note: Email is the best way to contact me) visiting me? here is the direction office hours : Monday 1:30~2:30 pm (Fall 2018) I direct the Motion and Shape Computing (MASC) Group that is affiliated with the GMU Autonomous Robotics Laboratory . Visit MASC group project page for our most recent research and publications. Our research goal is to develop efficient, robust and practical algorithms for representing, manipulating and analyzing massive geometric data of shape and motion. Our research finds applications in the areas of computational geometry, computer graphics, GIS, visualization and robotics. I also organize GRAND seminar . If you are visiting Washington DC area, I would certainly love to have you stop by and give a talk. CV pdf (last update: July 2018) Teaching CS425 Game Programming 1 All Past Courses Research MASC Group Members Projects Publications Software GRAND seminar Google Scholar Profile Selected publications ( A full list of my publications) Computational Origami (see details ) Creating Foldable Polyhedral Nets Using Evolution Control , Yue Hao and Yun-Hyeong Kim and Zhonghua Xi and Jyh-Ming Lien, Proceedings of the Robotics: Science and Systems Conference ( RSS ), Jun. 2018 ( paper ) ( project page ) Learning to Segment and Unfold Polyhedral Mesh from Failures , Zhonghua Xi and Yun-Hyeong Kim and Young J. Kim and Jyh-Ming Lien, Shape Modeling International ( SMI ), Jun. 2016; also appears in Journal of Computers & Graphics. ( paper ) ( project page ) Folding and Unfolding Origami Tessellation by Reusing Folding Path , Zhonghua Xi and Jyh-Ming Lien, 2015 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation ( ICRA ), May. 2015 ( paper ) ( project page ) Plan Folding Motion for Rigid Origami via Discrete Domain Sampling , Zhonghua Xi and Jyh-Ming Lien, 2015 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation ( ICRA ), May. 2015 ( paper ) ( project page ) Folding Rigid Origami with Closure Constraints , Zhonghua Xi and Jyh-Ming Lien, International Design and Engineering Technical Conferences & Computers and Information in Engineering Conference ( IDETC/CIE ), ASME, Aug. 2014 ( paper ) ( project page ) ( software ) Algorithmic Robotics and Motion Planning (see details ) Online Collision Prediction Among 2D Polygonal and Articulated Obstacles , Yanyan Lu, Zhonghua Xi and Jyh-Ming Lien, International Journal of Robotics Research ( IJRR ), accepted, 2015. Earlier versions appeared in the Eleventh International Workshop on the Algorithmic Foundations of Robotics ( WAFR ), Istanbul, Turkey, Aug. 2014 and in the IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems ( IROS ), Chicago, USA, Sep. 2014 ( project page ) ( source code ) ( video ) Planning Motion in Similar Environments , Jyh-Ming Lien and Yanyan Lu, in the Proceedings of the Robotics: Science and Systems Conference ( RSS ), Seattle, Washington, Jun. 2009. ( paper ) ( project page ) Hybrid Motion Planning Using Minkowski Sums , Jyh-Ming Lien, in the Proceedings of the Robotics: Science and Systems Conference ( RSS ), Zurich, Switzerland. Jun. 2008. ( paper ) ( project page ) Shape Segmentation and Analysis Methods (see details ) Continuous Visibility Feature , Guilin Lu, Yotam Gingold, and Jyh-Ming Lien, in the Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ( CVPR ), June 2015, Boston, MA, USA ( paper ) ( project page ) ( source code ) Dual-Space Decomposition of 2D Complex Shapes , Guilin Liu and Zhonghua Xi and Jyh-Ming Lien, 27th IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition ( CVPR ), IEEE, Jun. 2014 ( paper ) ( project page ) ( source code ) Approximate Convex Decomposition of Polyhedra and Its Applications , Jyh-Ming Lien and Nancy Amato, Computer Aided Geometric Design ( CAGD ), 25(7), pp. 503~522, 2008. ( paper ) ( project page ) Approximate Convex Decomposition for Polygons , Jyh-Ming Lien and Nancy M. Amato, Computational Geometry: Theory & Applications ( CGTA ), Vol. 35, pp. 100123, 2006. ( paper ) ( project page ) ( source code ) Mesh Processing and Repair Fast and Robust Generation of City-Scale Seamless 3D Urban Models , Yanyan Lu, Evan Behar, Stephen Donnelly, Jyh-Ming Lien, Fernando Camelli, and David Wong, Computer-Aided Design ( CAD ), volume 43, issue 11. Also in the Proc. of SIAM Conference on Geometric and Physical Modeling ( GD/SPM ), Orlando, Florida, Oct. 2011. Nominated for best paper award (6/72 papers) ( paper ) ( project page ) Minkowski sum (see details ) A Simple Method for Computing Minkowski Sum Boundary in 3D Using Collision Detection , Jyh-Ming Lien, Algorithmic Foundations of Robotics VIII ( WAFR ), pp. 400~416, Springer, 2010. ( paper ) ( project page ) ( source code ) Covering Minkowski Sum Boundary Using Points with Applications , Jyh-Ming Lien, Computer Aided Geometric Design ( CAGD ), 25(8), pp. 652~666, 2008. Listed by CAGD as one of the most cited papers since 2007. ( paper ) ( project page ) ( source code ) Group Control and Monitoring (see details ) Following a Large Unpredictable Group of Targets Among Obstacles , Christopher Vo and Jyh-Ming Lien, Proceedings of the Third International Conference on Motion in Games ( MIG ), Springer, 2010 ( paper ) ( project page ) Shepherding Behaviors with Multiple Shepherds , Jyh-Ming Lien, Samuel Rodriguez, Jean-Philippe Malric, Nancy M. Amato, In Proc. IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation ( ICRA ), pp. 3402-3407, Apr 2005. ( paper ) ( project page ) Publications ( A full list of my publications) [ Back to top | Sitemap ] 
