 Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT Employee Self Service Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington w Aeronautics and Astronautics w Alumni Industry Site Map Intranet Open search area thinstrip-search UW Links quicklinks-arrow MENU Search Main menu About Us Values and Educational Objectives Quick Facts Visiting A&A Buildings & Directions Student Outcomes Accreditation K-12 Outreach Contact Us Diversity People Faculty Staff Affiliates, Adjuncts, and Emerti Postdocs Visiting Committee Research Research Programs Industry Sponsorship Undergraduate Capstone Projects AER Facilities Kirsten Wind Tunnel C. Bossart Machine Shop 3x3 Low-Speed Wind Tunnel News & Events News Events Calendar Highflight Magazine Department Graduation 2019 Admissions Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Diversity Scholarships, Fellowships and Funding Students Academics Resources for Students Scholarships, Fellowships and Funding Diversity GIVE Research Research Research Programs Flow Z-Pinch Experiment Flow Z-Pinch Experiments The Flow Z-Pinch is an innovative confinement concept to magnetically confine a high-temperature, high-density plasma. The Z-pinch has a simple, linear configuration with no applied magnetic fields. The self-field generated by the axial current confines and compresses the plasma. The concept was investigated extensively for fusion energy applications; however, the configuration is unstable to gross sausage and kink modes. The Flow Z-Pinch Experiments include the original ZaP Flow Z-Pinch, ZaP-HD (High Energy Density), and FuZE (Fusion Z-Pinch Experiment). The research project investigates the concept of using sheared axial flows to provide complete stability without adversely affecting the advantageous properties of the Z-pinch (no applied fields, high temperatures, high densities, unity average beta, and only perpendicular heat conduction). The experiment produces a Z-pinch plasma that is 100 cm long with a 1 cm radius. The plasma exhibits stability for an extended quiescent period. The experiment addresses the basic plasma science issue of the connection between sheared flows and plasma stability. In addition, the concept has applications for fusion energy and advanced space propulsion. The laboratory is located in the basement of the AERB (Rm. 036). The experiment is funded by the Department of Energy (DOE), Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E), and National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) . The ZaP project is a certified green laboratory, and it has been awarded the 2016 UW Greenest Lab Award by the University of Washington Sustainability . Alumni Industry Site Map Intranet Research Programs Flow Z-Pinch Experiment People Research Specifications Publications Principal Investigators Uri Shumlak Professor Aeronautics & Astronautics Brian Nelson Co-Principal Investigator Research Associate Professor Electrical Engineering UW College of Engineering coe-wordmark-centered Be Boundless Connect with us: Facebook LinkedIn UW Home Contact Us Login Privacy Terms Learn about our ABET Accreditation 2019 Aeronautics and Astronautics | UW College of Engineering | Seattle, WA 
