 DR. J. MARK PULLEN mpullen@gmu.edu EDUCATION D.Sc., Computer Science, The George Washington University, 1981. M.S., Electrical Engineering, West Virginia University, 1972. B.S., Electrical Engineering, West Virginia University, 1970. PRESENT POSITION Professor of Computer Science, George Mason University Director, Center of Excellence in Command, Control, Communications, Computing Intelligence, and Cyber (C4I and Cyber Center) Director, Networking and Simulation Laboratory, C4I & Cyber Center MAJOR RECOGNITIONS Elected Fellow of the IEEE for "technical leadership in computing systems and networking" Elected Fellow of the ACM for "contributions to information technology in transitioning the Internet from a Federal research project to commercial availability, and development of Internet distance education technologies" IEEE Harry Diamond Memorial Award for developments in networking for distributed simulation Licensed Professional Engineer in Virginia and West Virginia Defense Superior Service Medal for "achievements in computer systems, networking, and simulation" on retirement from military service EXPERIENCE 2002-present: Professor of Computer Science, George Mason University; also Director C4I Center from 2005. Teach graduate and undegraduate courses in computer networking and networked virtual environments; lead research teams in Web-based techniques for interoperability of military command and control systems with simulations and in multimedia networking including effective, affordable Internet distance education. Principal Investigator in multiple, multi-organization/multi-year projects in these areas. Projects include "Visible Embryo" project (sponsored by Nation al Library of Medicine) by eight nationally-recognized medical and information technology teams that demonstrated the feasibility of advanced medical collaboration using visualization over high-performance networks across the US; also the Extensible Modeling and Simulation Framework (XMSF) initiative (sponsored by Defense Modeling and Simulation Office) which led to use of Web technologies for interoperation of military simulation and C4I software systems; currently leader in Battle Management Language (BML) projects including Extensible BML, Joint BML, geoBML, and NATO Coalition BML and related SISO standards effort. Developed MIST/C open-source synchronous Internet distance education software and used it to provide online MS degree programs in Computer Science. Led C4I Center to tenfold growth in project funding. 1992-2001: Associate Professor of Computer Science and Director, Networking and Simulation Laboratory, George Mason University. Taught graduate and undegraduate courses in computer networking; performed research in protocols for application of high performance data networks, focus on network and higher layers to be used for multicast interconnection of distributed simulation. Active in Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) work in multicasting technologies; developed Selectively Reliable Multicast Protocol specification and also a suite of models to simulate Quality of Service protocols for the Internet, recognized as one of two top academic projects for 1997 by developers of the OPNET modeling system; served as Principal Investigator leading an eight-member team of GMU faculty and subcontractors for the DARPA Computer Assisted Education and Training Initiative (CAETI) and the follow-on DoDEA Presidential Technology Initiative (PTI); 1995 recipient of IEEE Harry Diamond Memorial Award for developments in networking for distributed simulation. Developer of Network Workbench open source network simulation/educational software. Author of Understanding Internet Protocols. Served in 2000 as Vice President for Technology Policy Activities of IEEE-USA and in 2001 as General Chair of IEEE Distributed Simulation and Real time Applications Workshop. Elected Fellow of the ACM, 2001, for "contributions to information technology in transitioning the Internet from a Federal research project to commercial availability, and development of Internet distance education technologies." 1991-1992: Program Director, Distributed Simulation, Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). Responsible for program planning and execution in distributed warfighting simulation, a leading-edge activity designated "critical" by the Department of Defense that makes intensive use of computing and communications technologies, with budget of $40 million. Defined, justified, organized, and led advanced technology program to enable distributed simulation as a worldwide Department of Defense capability for readiness, systems acquisition, analysis, and military operations. Personally managed the development of the advanced multimedia worldwide data network and distributed system protocols required for this capability, as well as the Aggregate Level Simulation Protocol (ALSP) project that led to the DoD High Level Architecture (HLA) for modeling and simulation. Retired with rank of Lieutenant Colonel. Received Defense Superior Service Medal on retirement for "achievements in computer systems, networking, and simulation." 1989-1991: Deputy Director, DARPA Information Science and Technology Office and Tactical Technology Office. Responsible for administration in support of about twenty technical professionals working at the cutting edge of information technology. Personally managed programs in high definition imaging systems and advanced networking. Represented DARPA on the team that started the Federal High Performance Computing and Communications initiative. Responsible for transition of DARPA Internet program to private sector commercialization. Elected Fellow of the IEEE for technical leadership in computing systems and networking. 1986-1988: Program Manager for Advanced Computing and Networking, DARPA. Responsible for parallel computing and advanced networking. Built DARPA program that became the basis for much of the Federal High Performance Computing initiative. Leader in creating the Federal Networking Council and in developing plans for the National Research and Education Network that has today grown in concept to become the National Information Infrastructure (NII). Leader in founding the Committee for Coordination of Intercontinental Research Networks (CCIRN) that developed what has become worldwide Internet connectivity. 1985-1986: IEEE Congressional Fellow, U.S. Congressional Staff. Provided technical support for the Computer Security Act and authorizing legislation for the National Bureau of Standards, including pilot program enabling the flexible personnel management of government scientists and engineers. 1981-1985: Associate Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, U.S. Military Academy, West Point, New York. Developed new course spearheading change to curriculum. Performed research in parallel computing, including cooperative program as part of the RP3 Project on-site at IBM T. J. Watson Laboratory, Yorktown Heights, New York. RESEARCH INTERESTS Networking and distributed multimedia computing and their application to distributed education and training. FULL ACADEMIC CURRICULUM VITAE SELECTED PUBLICATIONS Pullen, J., Enabling Military Coalition Command and Control with Interoperating Simulations, 5th International Conference on Simulation and Modeling Methodologies, Technologies and Applications, Colmar, France, August 2015 Clark, N., J. Pullen and C. Bashioum, An Experimental Project Course to Prepare Students for Agile Web Application Development, ACM SIGCSE Innovative Technology in Computer Science Education, Vilnius, Lithuania, July 2015 Pullen, J. and N. Clark, An Open Source Synchronous Online Distance Education System with Reduced Support Requirements, IADIS eSociety Conference, Madrid, Spain, February 2014 Pullen, J., D. Corner, R. Wittman, A. Brook, P. Gustavsson, U. Schade and T. Remmersmann, Multi-Schema and Multi-Server Advances for C2-Simulation Interoperation in MSG-085, NATO Modeling and Simulation Symposium 2013 Pullen, J., D. Corner, R. Wittman, A. Brook, O Mevassvik and A. Alstad, Technical and Operational Issues in Combining MSDL and C-BML Standards for C2-Simulation Interoperation in MSG-085, NATO Modeling and Simulation Group Annual Symposium, Stockholm, Sweden, October 2012 Pullen, J., Pros and Cons for Teaching Courses in the Classroom and Online Simultaneously, ACM SIGCSE Information Technology in Computer Science Education 2012, Haifa, Israel, July 2012 Pullen, J., D. Corner, P. McAndrews and L. Niklas, Services to Support Experimentation for Operational Use of Simulations in Coalition Command and Control, International Command and Control Research and Technology Symposium, Fairfax, VA, June 2012 Heffner, K. and J. Pullen, Effective Simulation Support for Operator Training in Unmanned Aircraft systems Development and Deployment, NATO Modeling and Simulation Group Annual Symposium, Berne, Switzerland, October 2011 Abbott, J., J. Pullen and S. Levine, Answering the Question: Why a BML Standard Has Taken So Long to be Established? IEEE Fall Simulation Interoperability Workshop, Orlando, FL, September 2011 (received best paper award) Pullen, J., L. Nicklas, T. Crawford, L. Demasi, and S. Levine, Investigating Contributions of the C2Core to Battle Management Language, IEEE Fall Simulation Interoperability Workshop, Orlando, FL, September 2011 Ababneh, M. and J. Pullen, An Open Source Graphical User Interface Surrogate C2 System for Battle Management Language Experimentation, International Command and Control Research and Technology Symposium, Quebec, Canada, June 2011 (nominated for best student paper) Pullen, J., M. Ababneh, S. Singapogu, R. Brown and V. Dobbs, A NATO OPORD Capability for BML, Proceedings of the IEEE Spring 2011 Simulation Interoperability Workshop, Boston, MA, April 2011 Heffner, K, J. Pullen and L. Khimeche, MSG-048 Technical Activity Experimentation to Evaluate Applicability of a Coalition Battle Management Language in NATO, NATO Modeling and Simulation Group Annual Symposium, Utrecht, Netherlands, September 2010 Pullen, J.M. et al., An Expanded C2-Simulation Experimental Environment Based on BML, Proceedings of the IEEE Spring 2010 Simulation Interoperability Workshop, Orlando, FL, April 2010 Pullen, J.M. and K. Heffner, Supporting Coalition Battle Management Language Experiments with Scripted Web Services, NATO Modeling and Simulation Group Annual Symposium, Brussels, Belgium, October 2009 Pullen, J.M., D. Corner and S. Singapogu, Scripted Battle Management Language 2 Operation and Mapping Description Language, Proceedings of the IEEE Fall 2009 Simulation Interoperability Workshop, Orlando, FL, September 2009 Pullen, J.M., D. Corner, S. Singapogu and P. McAndrews, Interpreted Web Services as a Tool for Development of Command and Control Interoperability with Simulations, Proceedings of the IEEE Distributed Simulation and Real Time Applications Symposium, Singapore, October 2009 Pullen, J.M. and J. Chen, Distributed Application Launching for High Quality Graphics in Synchronous Distance Education, ACM Special Interest Group on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE) Bulletin, Vol 40 No. 3, pp 204-208, 2008 Pullen, J.M. and C. Snow, Integrating Synchronous and Asynchronous Internet Distributed Education for Maximum Effectiveness, Educational and Information Technologies (2007), pp 137-148, Springer, New York NY Pullen, J., K. Makenini and P. McAndrews, A Grammar-Based Web Service Enabling Multi-domain Distributed Interoperation of Command/Control and Simulation Systems, Proceedings of the IEEE Distributed Simulation and Real Time Applications Symposium Chania Greece, October 2007 Pullen, J., M. Hieb, L. Khimeche, M. Powers, and K. Galvin, Evaluating the Proposed Coalition Battle Management Language Standard as a Basis for Enhanced C2 to M&S Interoperability, NATO Modeling and Simulation Group Annual Symposium, Prague, Czech Republic, October 2007, won best paper award Hieb, M., M. Nielsen, K. Pedersen, M. Powers, J. Pullen and D. Swann, A Standards-Based Framework for Integrating Command and Control Systems, Geospatial Information Systems and Simulations: Generating Actionable Geospatial Information, Proceedings of the IEEE Euro-Simulation Interoperability Workshop, Genoa, Italy, June 2007, won best paper award Snow, C., J.M. Pullen and P. McAndrews, An Open-Source Web-Based System for Synchronous Distance Education, IEEE Transactions on Education, Vol.48 No. 4, pp 705-712 Pullen, J., M. Hieb, W. Sudnikovich, and P. de Champs, An International Experiment in Command and Control - Simulation Interoperability Using Web Services, Proceedings of the IEEE Distributed Simulation and Real Time Applications Symposium, pp 235-241, Torremolinos, Spain, October 2006 Pullen, J. and P. McAndrews, Low-Cost Internet Synchronous Distance Education Using Open-Source Software, ASEE Computers in Education Journal, Vol 25 No 5, 2005 Pullen, J., R. Simon and P. McAndrews, An Online Graduate Computer Science Program Delivered Via Simulteaching, Advanced Technology for Learning Vol 2 No 3 pp 148-155, 2005, ACTA Press, Calgary AB Pullen, J.M., and P. McAndrews, A Web Portal for Open-Source Synchronous Distance Education, Advanced Technology for Learning Vol 2 No 1 pp 9-15, 2005, ACTA Press, Calgary AB Pullen, J.M., R. Brunton, D. Brutzman, David Drake, Michael Hieb, K. Morse, and A. Tolk, Using Web Services to Integrate Heterogeneous Simulations in a Grid Environment, Future Generation Computer Systems Vol 21 No 1 pp 97-106, 2005, Elsevier Sudnikovich, W., M. Kleiner, S. Carey, and J.M. Pullen, Extensible Battle Management Language as a Transformation Enabler, SIMULATION: Transactions of the Society for Modeling and Simulation International Vol 80 No 12 pp 669-680, special issue on Military Simulation Systems and Command and Control Systems Interoperability, December 2004 Moen, D., J.M. Pullen, and F. Zhao, Implementation of Host-based Overlay Multicast to Support Web Based Services for RT-DVS, Proceedings of the IEEE Distributed Simulation and Real Time Applications Workshop, Budapest, Hungary, October 2004 Pullen, J., R. Brunton, D. Brutzman, David Drake, Michael Hieb, K. Morse, and A. Tolk, Using Web Services to Integrate Heterogeneous Simulations in a Grid Environment, Proceedings of the International Conference on Computational Science 2004, Krakow, Poland, June 2004 (invited paper) Moen, D. and J.M. Pullen, Enabling Real-Time Distributed Virtual Simulation over the Internet Using Host-based Overlay Multicast, Proceedings of the IEEE Distributed Simulation and Real Time Applications Workshop, Delft, Netherlands, October 2003 Pullen, J.M., A Software System for Cost-Effective Internet Delivery of Synchronous Distance Education, Proceedings of IASTED International Conference on Computers and Advanced Technology in Education 2003, IASTED, Calgary, AB, June 2003 Brutzman, D., K. Morse, J. M. Pullen and M. Zyda, Extensible Modeling and Simulation Framework (XMSF): Challenges for Web-Based Modeling and Simulation, Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, CA, 2002 Pullen, J.M., "The Network Workbench and Constructivism: Learning Protocols By Programming," Computer Science Education Vol 11 No 1 pp 1-14, September 2001 Pullen, J. M., "The Internet Lecture: Converging Teaching and Technology," ACM Special Interest Group on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE) Bulletin , September 2000 Pullen, J., "The Network Workbench: Network Simulation Software for Academic Investigation of Internet Concepts," Computer Networks Vol 32 No 3 pp 365-378, March 2000 Pullen, J.M. and M. Benson, "ClassWise: Synchronous Internet Desktop Education," November 1999 special multimedia issue of IEEE Transactions on Education Pullen, J.M., M. Myjak, and C. Bouwens, "Limitations of Internet Protocol Suite for Distributed Simulation in the Large Multicast Environment," Internet Engineering Task Force Informational RFC 2502, Internet Society, 1999 Pullen, J.M., L. Lavu, R. Malghan, G. Duan, J. Ma and H. Nah "A Simulation Model for IP Multicast with RSVP," Internet Engineering Task Force Informational RFC 2490, Internet Society, 1999 Pullen, J.M. and H. Nah, "A Multi-User Virtual Environment With Extensible User-Friendly Web-Based Interfaces", Proceedings of the 1999 Western Simulation Multi-Conference, Society for Computer Simulation, San Diego, CA, January 1999 Pullen, J., "Synchronous Distance Education and the Internet", Internet Society Annual Conference 1998, Geneva, Switzerland, July 1998 Pullen, J.M., "Network Issues in Distributed Simulation," Chapter 17 in Applied Modeling and Simulation: An Integrated Approach to Development and Operation, D. Cloud and L. Rainey, eds., McGraw-Hill, 1998 Bordeaux, A., D. Sprague, J. M. Pullen and D. Sterling, "Taming the Electronic Frontier: A Distance Education Course for Defense Dependents School Teachers," The Journal of Computing in Teacher Education , Vol. 14 No. 3, Spring 1998 Pullen, J. and E. Norris, "Using A Multi-User Virtual Environment As A Synchronous Teaching Tool," Western Simulation Multi-Conference, San Diego, CA, January 1998 Pullen, J. and V. Laviano, "Adding Congestion Control to the Selectively Reliable Transmission Protocol for Large Scale Distributed Simulation", Simulation Interoperability Workshop, Orlando FL, September 1997 Pullen, J., M. Moreau and V, Laviano, "Creating A Light-Weight RTI As an Evolution of Dual-Mode Multicast Using Selectively Reliable Transmission" Simulation Interoperability Workshop, Orlando FL, September 1997 Pullen, J. Mark, "Synchronous Distance Education Via the Internet", IEEE/ASEE Frontiers in Education '96, Salt Lake City UT, November 1996 Pullen, J. Mark and David Wood. "Networking Technology and DIS," Proceedings of the IEEE (Aug. 1995). Pullen, J. Mark and Vincent Laviano. "A Selectively Reliable Transport Protocol for Distributed Interactive Simulation," Distributed Interaction Simulation Workshop, Orlando, Florida, Sept. 1995. Pullen, J. Mark and E. White. "Analysis of Dual-Mode Multicast for Large-Scale DIS Exercises," Distributed Interaction Simulation Workshop, Orlando, Florida, Sept. 1995. Pullen, J. Mark. "Rapid System Virtual Prototyping and the Information Superhighway," Johns Hopkins University/IEEE Computer Society Advanced Technology Symposium, Baltimore, 1994. Symington, Susan, J. Mark Pullen and David Wood. "Modeling and Simulation Requirements for IPng," Internet Engineering Task Force RFC 1667 , Aug. 1994. Hieb, M.R., G. Tecuci, J.M. Pullen and D. Hille. "Building Adaptive Autonomous Agents for Adversarial Domains," AAAI 1994 Fall Symposium , New Orleans, 1994. Pullen, J. Mark. "Networking for Distributed Virtual Simulation," Joint European Networking/ Internet Society Conference, Prague, 1994. Pullen, J. Mark. "DSI Strategic Planning: Multicast Protocol Selection," white paper for Defense Information Systems Agency/Advanced Research Projects Agency panel on protocols for the Defense Simulation Internet (DSI), Dec. 1993. Pullen, J. Mark, Danny Cohen, and David Wood. "Emerging Technologies: National/Defense Information Infrastructure and the Defense Information Systems Network," IEEE Military Communications Conference, Bedford, Massachusetts, 1993. Pullen, J. Mark and J. N. Entzminger. "Applications of Networking Technology in Computer-Assisted Exercises," IEEE Military Communications Conference, McLean, Virginia, 1991. Pullen, J. Mark. "The Federal High Performance Computing Program," Executive Office of the President, Office of Science and Technology Policy, Sept. 8, 1989 (member of primary drafting team; primary drafter of chapter on the National Research and Education Network). 
