 Enter search text All the UW Current site All the UW Current site Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Give to ECE Quick Links Menu News + Events Events Calendar Research Colloquium Lytle Lecture Series Graduation Capstone Fair Electrical Engineering Kaleidoscope The Integrator Newsletter People Faculty Staff Emeritus Faculty Adjunct Faculty Affiliate Faculty Academics Bachelor of Science Combined BS-MS Masters & Ph.D. Professional Masters Program Non-Degree Options Research Biosystems Computing and Networking Data Sciences Photonics and Nano Devices Power and Energy Systems Robotics and Controls Research Centers Research Labs Research Projects Innovation Engineering Entrepreneurial Capstone Washington Nanofabrication Facility Makerspace: Accelerating Innovation SNUPI: Home Monitoring Systems BluHaptics: Underwater Robots with Human Touch WiBotic: Wireless Power for Robots Get Involved Researchers Industry Sponsors Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Give to UW ECE About Message from the Chair Office of the Chair Contact Us ABET Accreditation News + Events Events Calendar Research Colloquium Lytle Lecture Series Graduation Capstone Fair Electrical Engineering Kaleidoscope The Integrator Newsletter People Faculty Staff Emeritus Faculty Adjunct Faculty Affiliate Faculty Academics Bachelor of Science Combined BS-MS Masters & Ph.D. Professional Masters Program Non-Degree Options Research Biosystems Computing and Networking Data Sciences Photonics and Nano Devices Power and Energy Systems Robotics and Controls Research Centers Research Labs Research Projects Innovation Engineering Entrepreneurial Capstone Washington Nanofabrication Facility Makerspace: Accelerating Innovation SNUPI: Home Monitoring Systems BluHaptics: Underwater Robots with Human Touch WiBotic: Wireless Power for Robots Get Involved Researchers Industry Sponsors Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Give to UW ECE About Message from the Chair Office of the Chair Contact Us ABET Accreditation Jim Peckol Principal Lecturer Home People Jim Peckol James K. Peckol received his BS in engineering from Case Institute of Technology in 1966 and his MS and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from the University of Washington 1975 and 1985 respectively. Peckol has spent over 45 years in industry and in universities developing embedded systems, conducting research and teaching. He is currently a Principal Lecturer on real time embedded system design, computer architecture, digital logic design and elementary circuit design. He has served as Professor (1996) and Maitre de Conferences (1993) at the University of Nantes in France while working as an invited lecturer in fuzzy logic and researcher in hardware/software co-design and computer performance monitoring. He has held the position of Senior Lecturer (Associate Professor) at the University of Aberdeen in Scotland (1987) while conducting research in artificial intelligence and knowledge management. Working as an invited visiting Professor in the Advanced Program at Danang Technical University in Vietnam (summers 2008, 2009, 2011, 2013 and 2015), he evaluated the program, advised and taught in the areas of computer architecture, digital / embedded systems and C programming. One team of students from the 2011 embedded systems class won a national competition in Vietnam for a project they developed based upon what they had learned in class. Peckol developed systems supporting the Mars Viking Landers and is a co-inventor of Virtual Instruments, a patented programming environment for developing electronic test and measurement applications. He is a member of Tau Beta Pi, IEEE, ACM and AAAI. Peckols published works include a book on embedded systems design and development and papers in the areas of hardware/software co-design, virtual instrument design and automatic test program synthesis. He has conducted workshops on applying AI strategies to electronic test and has served as session chairman in AI at several international ATE test conferences and chairman of the Technical Sessions Committee for Northcon 96. He is a member of the University of Washington PCE Programs C, C++ and Embedded Systems Advisory Boards. Peckol has been recognized in Whos Who in the World 1997-2015, Whos Who in America 1997-2015 and Whos Who in Science and Engineering 1996-2015. Representative Publications Embedded Systems A Contemporary Design Tool, John Wiley & Sons, Inc. NJ, 2008. Phone 206-543-9477 Email jkp@ece.uw.edu Mail M210 EEB Affiliations Senior Member, Life Member IEEE Member ACM Member AAAI Member Tau Beta Pi Innovation/Entrepreneurship Co-Inventor Virtual Instruments Education Ph.D., 1985 University of Washington MS, 1975 University of Washington BS, 1966 Case Institute of Technology Connect with ECE: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn University of Washington Be boundless Accessibility Contact Us Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms 2019 University of Washington | Seattle, WA 
