Please click here if you are not redirected within a few seconds. Home Publications Research People News Contacts Navigate to... Home Publications Research People News Contacts 1 2 3 4 5 our publication our research Donhee Ham Programs Scalable NMR spectroscopy nano & quantum materials Nano-bio interface Complex systems Integrated circuits Home Welcome to our new web Science, technology across EE, Physics, & Biology We push boundaries across physics, electrical engineering, and biology/medicine for breakthroughs that can enhance our life and propel our economy. We investigate the fundamental properties of nanoscale, low-dimensional, and/or quantum materials and pursue their applications in plasmonics, photonics, nano-biotechnology, quantum information, as well as (beyond-CMOS) electronics. We also develop solid-state electronic chips with various physical and chemical interfaces for applications in structural biology, drug discovery, neurotechnology, and molecular diagnostics. Other efforts include integrated circuits design and complex systems. Postdoctoral opportunities We are seeking candidates with doctoral degrees (in physics, EE, biology, bioengineering, or related field) in the areas of: 1) low-dimensional and quantum materials ; 2) semiconductor-bio interfaces ; and 3) solitonic power technology. The first area is focused particularly on low-dimensional materials and their applications in electronics, optoelectronics, and photonics. The second area is focused on massively parallel nano-bio interface array on semiconductor electronic chips with a special focus on neuroscience and cardiology ( an example paper is here ). The third area has emerged from a new initiative in energy science. Interested applicants please send CV and names of at least 2 references to donhee@seas.harvard.edu. Harvard University seeks to find, develop, promote, and retain the world's best scholars. Harvard is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer. Applications from women and minority candidates are strongly encouraged. Latest Highlights 2019 ESSCIRC/ESSDERC Joint Plenary Speech 2018 HBI Beauty of the Brain ARPA-E OPEN Award (1.68 million dollars) & Postdoc Positions More Highlights Our sponsors 1 2 3 Harvard University 33 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 p: 617-496-9451 | donhee@seas.harvard.edu | Contact Us 2014 Harvard University. Website created by Hosang Yoon and Donhee Ham 
