 Skip to main content Main Menu HARVARD.EDU Na (Lina) Li Thomas D. Cabot Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Applied Mathematics MD 345, 33 Oxford St, Cambridge, MA 02138; Email: nali@seas.harvard.edu; Phone: 617-496-1441 Home People Bio Publications Journal Conference Book (Chapter) Teaching Awards and Honors I am a Thomas D. Cabot associate professor in Electrical Engineering and Applied Mathematics of the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS) at Harvard University and a faculty associate at Harvard Unversity Center for the Environment (HUCE) and Harvard Center for Green Buildings and Cities. I received mybachelor's degree in Mathematics in 2007 from Zhejiang University andPh.D. degree in Control and Dynamical Systems (CDS) in 2013 from California Institute of Technology. Then I did one-year postdoctoral research in Laboratory for Information and Decision Systems (LIDS) in Massachusetts Institute of Technology. I started my appointment as an assistant professor at Harvard in 2014. My research lies in the learning, optimization,and control of network systems, with particular applications to cyber-physical systems.The goal is to develop foundational theories and tools to explore and exploit real-world system structures that can lead to computationally efficient and distributed solutions and apply them to improve systems operations and architecture. My research has been interdisciplinary in nature, integrating mathematical tools including data analysis,game theory, information theory, dynamical programming, reinforcement learning, optimization, and control. I have received NSF CAREER Award, AFOSR YIP Award, ONR YIP Award, Harvard Climate Change Solution Fund, Harvard PSE Accelerator Award, CDC best student paper award finalist, CCTA best student paper award finalist (as an adviser) etc. Google scholar page. CV.pdf 144 KB Latest News 12/2018: I received 2019 ONR YIP award for "Real-Time Distributed Coordination of Multi-Agent Systems Under Limited Communication". 10/2018: We received an NSF award for " EAGER: Real-Time: Learning, Selection, and Control in Residential Demand Response for Grid Reliability " (collaboration with ThinkEco Inc. ) 07/2018: I was appointed as an Associate Editor ofthe IEEE Control Systems Letters , effective Jan 1, 2019. 06/2018: Our paper of" Distributed Greedy Algorithm for Multi-Agent Task Assignment Problem with Submodular Utility Functions " was provisionally accepted to Automatica. 06/2018: Our paper of " On the Exponential Stability of Primal-Dual Gradient Dynamics " was accepted to IEEE Control System Letters. 06/2018: Our paper of" Communication Complexity of Distributed Resource Allocation Optimization " was accepted to IEEE JSTSP:Special Issue on Signal and Information Processing for Critical Infrastructures. 06/2018: Xin Chen was selected as one of the two finalists of best student paper award in the IEEE Conference on Control Technology and Applications (CCTA) for our paper, " Distributed Automatic Load-Frequency Control with Optimality in Power Systems ". 03/2018: I was prompted to the rank ofAssociate Professor, effective July 1, 2018. 03/2018: Our paper of " Passivity-Based Distributed Optimization with Communication Delays Using PI Consensus Algorithm " has been accepted to IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control. 01/2018: Our paper of "An Optimal and Distributed Feedback Voltage Control under Limited Reactive Power" has been accepted to PSCC. 01/2018: Three of our ACC papers have been accepted. 01/2018: We received the HarvardClimate Change Solutions Fund to assess how renewable energies impact the reliability of electricity grid. Office Hours Monday: 11-12pm, Tuesday: 11:30-12pm The office hours are open to anyone, either undergraduate or graduate students, who would like to chat and discuss. No need to make appointments if you come during office hours. For Prospective Students I am always looking for highly-motivated students with a strong mathematical background and interests in theory and computation. Students who are interested in working with large-scale systems-- in particular, large-scale optimization and control for networked systemsare encouraged to apply. Application information can be found here . Apologies for not being able to answer your inquiry emails about the application. Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright 2019 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement 
