Gu-Yeon Wei Robert and Suzanne Case Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Office: Maxwell Dworkin 333 Email: guyeon@seas.harvard.edu Office Phone: (617) 384-8131 Office Fax (617) 496-6404 Lab Location: 313 Maxwell Dworkin Lab Phone: (617) 496-1003 Assistant: Carol Harlow Assistant Office: Maxwell Dworkin 343 Assistant Phone: (617) 496-1440 Research Mgr: Benjamin Garvin : Profile Gu-Yeon Wei's research group focuses on various aspects of high-speed, low-power digital and mixed-signal VLSI circuits. Significant advances in modern CMOS technology have enabled highly complex machines capable of executing extremely high levels of computation with performance doubling every few years. However, this performance comes at the cost of higher power dissipation. At the other end of the spectrum, portable electronic devices demand low-power, energy-efficient operation. Wei's research group investigates the interactions between VLSI circuits, computer architecture, and software layers to enhance energy efficiency in future computing systems. Current research projects span a variety of topics such as integrated voltage regulators and associated computer architecture techniques to maximize its utility; flexible voltage stacking to address power delivery challenges in complex digital systems; power electronics to drive piezoelectric actuators for RoboBees, low-power computing architectures and circuits to serve as the 'brain' for RoboBees; collaborative computer architecture and circuit solutions to address process, voltage, and temperature (PVT) variations; runtime compilers to automatically parallelize inherently sequential code; and others. Prior research efforts focused on high-speed wireline transceivers and related building blocks. Wei received his B.S.E.E., M.S., and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University in 1994, 1997, and 2001, respectively. In August 2000, he joined Accelerant Networks (now a part of Synopsys) in Beaverton, Oregon as a Senior Design Engineer, where he worked on a 5-Gbps backplane transceiver with adaptive equalization. As the internet bubble was showing signs of bursting, he joined Harvard University in January 2002. Besides his research activities, he currently teaches students how to design chips in the VLSI Design course (CS148/CS248) and think about important circuits and systems issues through a graduate-level reading course that covers a wide range of topics related to Mixed-Signal IC Design (ES271r).As of July 1, 2011, Wei also serves as the Associate Dean for Academic Programs at SEAS. Through this position, he hopes to enhance design and hands-on experiential learning throughout the engineering curriculum, and to make Harvard SEAS a vibrant community for future engineers and scientists. 
