 Professor G. Dudek Professor and James McGill Chair McGill University School of Computer Science Director, NSERC Canadian Robotics Network (NCFRN) Member and past director, Centre for Intelligent Machines (CIM) Associate member, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering General Chair, ICRA 2019 -> Click for bio This site runs better with Javascript turned on. menu1=menus[1]; menu2=menus[2]; menu3=menus[3]; menu4=menus[4]; menu5=menus[5]; menu6=menus[6]; Research Biographical sketch Robotics Book Personal Courses Translate this page Research Lab Grad student applications Current Grad students Publication list A few selected publications Research interests Details Errata Order: amazon.ca Order: Amazon.com Software 206 Robotics and Intelligent Systems 417 Grad course on robotics (765B) Louis Dudek Krys Dudek Fred martin Warning: these are automated translations, and may not be accurate Japanese French German Chinese Spanish Research areas: autonomous navigation, robots that learn, mobile robotics, machine learning, robot localization, information summarization, human-robot interaction, sensor-based robotics, multi-robot systems, computer vision, marine robotics, self-driving vehicles, recognition. Research Director of the McGill Mobile Robotics Lab (click for detailed research project info) Mobile Robotics Lab Contact information and Address (click to open) Electronic mail: dudek @ cim (dot) mcgill (dot) edu (PGP public key .) Address: Gregory Dudek Centre for Intelligent Machines McGill University McConnell Engineering Building, Room 419 3480 University Street Montreal, Que, Canada H3A 2A7 Telephone: (514) 398-4325 FAX: 398-3883 Mobile Robot Lab: x2186 Admin assistant: 514-398-7071, ext. 00126 Electronic mail: dudek@cim.mcgill.edu (PGP public key .) Address: Gregory Dudek McGill University McConnell Engineering Building, Room 318 3480 University Street Montreal, Que, Canada H3A 2A7 Telephone: (514) 398-4325 FAX: 398-3883 Mobile Robot Lab: x2186 Admin assistant: 514-398-7071, ext. 00126 Information on visiting us (CIM/McGill/Montreal). Selected Publications A list of publications, old and new, including many on-line versions, is on our mobile robotics lab publications page . This is a small cross-section of assorted publications across my career. A more comprehensive and up-to-date list including on-line versions is on our mobile robotics lab publications page . Efficient methods for drivers to meet one another or passengers. Fast and Efficient Rendezvous in Street Networks. IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS'16). Searching for novelty is video, and using it to navigate a swimming robot to maximize the stuff that is observed. Autonomous Adaptive Underwater Exploration using Online Topic Modeling with Yogesh my student and Philippe (from Laval University). This combines an automated search for novelty with the behavior of our amphibious robot. A journal version can also be found in the Intl Journal of Robotics Research in 2013. Human-robot interaction and dialog is a growing area of interest in our group. This 2011 paper looks at validating it's utility. Graphical state space programming, from 2011-2009, (GSSP) material and executable code. Our first work on visual barcodes that serve as fiducial targets with variable resolution. We call them Fourier tags . A more recent paper on this looks at elaborating it with an enhanced payload and greater robustness . With Dimitri Marinakis looked at at inferring the topology of sensor networks using very sparse event information. A more recent paper one this is our 2010 article in the IEEE Transactions on Robotics. A preliminary paper on our recommender system work (visit recommendz to try it and get a movie recommendation ). Work that compares PCA to landmark-based posed estimation schemes, with Rob Sim: Comparing image-based localization methods (IJCAI 2003). Work on using visual landmarks for pose estimation. We have look at several variants of this and the following CVPR 2001 paper (postscript, gz) uses generative models. Initial work on reconstruction of depth images from intensity data with Luz-Abril Torres Mendez, from the proc. IEEE Workshop of Applications of Computer Vision 2002 (PDF file) . (Starting paper, see newer papers for better results.) With Yiannis Rekleitis and Evangelos Milios, we have been looked at using multiple robots to reduce errors during mapping. This paper is Multi-Robot Collaboration for Robust Exploration (this link is for a PDF reprint from the Annals of Mathematics and Artificial Intelligence, 2001). An ICCV 1999 paper on learning landmarks for pose estimation (gzipped postscript). A Taxonomy for Multi-Agent Robotics. Combines a taxonomy, some new results, and a survey of existing work. A preprint of this article can be found as a PDF file (an older journal article that was retreaded and updated for the book Robot Teams: From Diversity to Polymorphism, T. Balch and L. E. Parker (Eds.), 2002). Global localization: Localizing a Robot with Minimum Travel, with Kathleen Romanik and Sue Whitesides, SIAM J. Comput, 27, 2, April 1998, pp. 583-604. (300 KB). Localization from sonar models, with Paul MacKenzie, compressed postscript. Just-in-time sensing from sonar and laser data, ICRA 1996. with Rekleitis and Freedman. Work on the classification and use of sonar landmarks, with Simon Lacroix who did a postdoc at McGill, IROS 1997 (postscript). Computing ``shape texture'' for recognition (compressed postscript). 2-D shape-from-darkness and how hidden surfaces can be recovered. Langer, Dudek, Zucker, IROS 1995 (postcript). Multi-robot exploration, with Rekleitis and Milios, ICRA 1996 (compressed postscript). 3-D shape-from-darkness using iterative ``carving'' and arbitrary light source directions. Daum and Dudek, CVPR 1998. See lots more at the mobile robotics lab publications page (www.cim.mcgill.ca/~mrl). Video Interview "Dudek on robots in depth": what I do and how I got into marine robotics My work and the future of robotics according to Dudek -- one minute clip Anqi's hammer-bit (our robot "dancing"): Aqua robot dance Video (French): Short biography of Gregory Dudek (IT guy for November) for award from OCTAS. Video: 3-minute introduction of Gregory Dudek and his lab, and work on robots and robotics. This is intended as a quick intro for undergraduates. Video: Short presentations by the McGill Bravo 2011 honorees (including Greg Dudek, near the beginning) . All kinds of cool stuff, 30 seconds each. Video: Talk by Dudek for TEDx on robotics and finding interesting stuff automatically . Video: some of our work on fully autonomous vision-based airplane flight (UAV) (Xu, Dudek) . Video: using unsupervised learning to learn how a carpet "feels" and let a roomba robot stat on it (Giguere, Dudek) . Video: Generic robotics research video we showed at the G20/G8 summit (Sattar, Xu, Dudek) . Video: Unique hovering gait our robot is capable of, developed by G Dudek and Philippe Giguere now at Laval . Assorted Links The NSERC Canadian Field Robotics Network , a collaboration between robotics researchers. The AQUA underwater walking robot project . ( AQUA mirror .) Try our movie recommendation system. Unmaintained. To use it, rate a few movies that you like and dislike, and we'll try and provide some additional suggestions to you. Not an active project. Robotics in the New York Times. The 1998 perspective, still interesting. (Knight Ridder Syndicated, April 1999.) Buy the amphibious and underwater Aqua2 robot . Space weather report . COMP-765B [Winter 2009] Mobile Robotics and Spatial Representation Representing, exploring, and mapping space using mobile robots. Link regarding Louis Dudek This most recent post on my blog is entitled go there to find it. . Curriculum Vitae (resume) Fred | bornfree | Gregory Dudeks' blog | IR Mercurial book from Amazon.ca Or from the USA (sometimes faster, even in Canada): Mercurial book from Amazon.com Click here to close 
