 var sc_project=9721876; var sc_invisible=1; var sc_security="c983a1ce"; var scJsHost = (("https:" == document.location.protocol) ? "https://secure." : "http://www."); document.write("<sc"+"ript type='text/javascript' src='" + scJsHost+ "statcounter.com/counter/counter.js'></"+"script>"); Laurie J. Hendren Sable Research Group School of Computer Science (SOCS) Faculty of Science McGill University Montreal , Canada Our Big Projects HIG - Heath Informatics Group: leveraging electronic data in radiation oncology McLAB - an Extensible Compiler and Virtual Machine Toolkit for MATLAB abc - an Extensible Compiler Toolkit for AspectJ Soot - an Analysis and Optimization Framework for Java Some Useful Links Looking for motivated undergraduate and graduate research students Information for Undergraduate Students interested in studying Computer Science or Software Engineering at McGill University Links for Faculty of Science Work Group on Women Professors' Academic Careers MW Women's Hockey --- Lakeshore Chamber Orchestra --- 306 Wing Concert Band --- Laurie's Bassooning Web Site --- Flat-chested Warriors Research Description Historically my main area of research area has been the development of compilers for object-oriented and aspect-oriented programming languages. I also have a long-standing interest in pointer analysis and program analysis frameworks. My most recent research focus is on how to bring our compiler expertise to the world of scientists and engineers, and in particular how to support effective and efficient programming in the dynamic programming language MATLAB. To kick-start research in this area we are building a toolkit, McLAB , to support language extensions, compiler optimizations and transformations, virtual machines and JITs, and program understanding/refactoring tools for MATLAB and extensions of MATLAB. I have also started an interdisciplinary research project with colleagues from Radiation Oncology and Medical Physics. The HIG group is designing tools to leverage electronic data for the benefit of clinicians and patients in radiation oncology. An important facet of my work is that new research ideas should be developed along with software infrastructures to test those ideas. This has led to the development of many publicly available software frameworks, more details can be found on the group's web site at http://www.sable.mcgill.ca . Our research group hopes that other groups will use their software, and will contribute new pieces back them so that all compiler groups can benefit from the work. How to reach me ... E-mail: hendren at cs.mcgill.ca Office: 228 McConnell Engineering Building Office Phone: (514) 398-7391 Office FAX: (514)398-3883 Mailing Address: Laurie Hendren, Professor School of Computer Science McGill University McConnell Engineering Building, Room 318 3480 University Street Montreal, Quebec H3A 0E9 CANADA What's New? McLAB - a compiler and VM toolkit for Scientific Languages like MATLAB Actively searching for undergraduate and graduate researchers for all aspects of the McLAB project. Come and join our team! Lots of people are still using Soot . If you are using Soot, please add yourself to the list on the Wiki, https://svn.sable.mcgill.ca/wiki/index.cgi/SootUsers . Showing how Soot is used helps the research community and also helps us demonstrate the impact of our tools. ACM Fellow Canada Research Chair Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada Other Information Curriculum Vitae (.pdf) - (html - sectioned) - (html - one page) Selected Publications with links to online papers Bibliographic and Citation Search for Laurie Hendren Online Computer Science Resources from McGill Library SIGPLAN Here is some information about the AspectJ programming language and AspectJ compilers . Teaching 2015/16 COMP 762 (Fall 2015) - Advanced Topics: Programming I - Big Data Meets Programming Languages and Compilers COMP 621 - Program Analysis and Transformations (Fall 2015) (previously called Optimizing Compilers ) COMP 520 - Compiler Design (Winter 2016) Other not-so-recently taught courses COMP 202 - Introduction to Computing I COMP 303 - Programming Techniques (Winter 2005) COMP 520A - Compiler Design (Fall 2004) COMP 762 Advanced Topics: Programming I Advanced Static and Dynamic Compiler Techniques (Fall 2009) COMP 762 (2001) - Seminar Systems for Object-Oriented Languages COMP 763 (2002)- Advanced Seminar on Compilation and Run-time in Advanced Compilation Maintained by Laurie J. Hendren Last modified Sun Aug 31 09:23:05 EDT 2014. [HOME] Compiler research projects: Soot, a Java analysis, optimization and transformation toolkit ---- abc, an AspectJ compiler . ---- McLAB, a compiler and VM toolkit for MATLAB 
