 Paul G. Kry Associate Professor Contact School of Computer Science, McGill University 3480 University Street McConnell Building, Room 318 Montral, QC, H3A 0E9 Canada office: MC423 phone: +1 514 398 2577 email: kry@ cs. mcgill.ca Teaching Courses for Fall 2018 and Winter 2019 COMP 559 Winter 2019 , Fundamentals of Computer Animation COMP 557 Fall 2018 , Fundamentals of Computer Graphics COMP 273 Fall 2018 , Introduction to Computer Systems +Previous Courses COMP 559 Winter 2018 , Fundamentals of Computer Animation (No 350? No 557? No problem! Send me email!) COMP 557 Fall 2018 , Fundamentals of Computer Graphics COMP 559 Winter 2017, Fundamentals of Computer Animation COMP 557 Fall 2016, Fundamentals of Computer Graphics COMP 273 Fall 2016, Introduction to Computer Systems COMP 559 Winter 2016, Fundamentals of Computer Animation COMP 557 Fall 2015, Fundamentals of Computer Graphics COMP 273 Fall 2015, Introduction to Computer Systems COMP 559 Winter 2014, Fundamentals of Computer Animation COMP 273 Winter 2014, Introduction to Computer Systems COMP 557 Fall 2013, Fundamentals of Computer Graphics COMP 559 Winter 2013, Fundamentals of Computer Animation COMP 557 Fall 2012, Fundamentals of Computer Graphics COMP 273 Fall 2011, Introduction to Computer Systems COMP 557 Fall 2011, Fundamentals of Computer Graphics COMP 559 Winter 2011, Fundamentals of Computer Animation COMP 557 Fall 2010, Fundamentals of Computer Graphics COMP 599 Winter 2010, Fundamentals of Computer Animation COMP 557 Fall 2009, Fundamentals of Computer Graphics COMP 599 Winter 2009, Fundamentals of Computer Animation COMP 202 Fall 2008, Introduction to Computing 1 COMP 764B Winter 2008, Computer Graphics and Animation. Research Interests and Information My research interests include computer graphics, physically based animation, skin deformations of articulated characters, motion capture, interaction, and physically based modeling of humans and animals. I am specifically interested in human and animal motor control (e.g., locomotion, grasping, manipulation) in combination with natural phenomena such as the physics of rigid objects, deformation, and contact. Example application areas include computer animation for video games and movies, training simulations, ergonomics, and biologically inspired robotics and programming by demonstration. An important aspect of my work is the combination of real world measurements, approximate models, and physically based simulation. I am also interested in machine learning, numerical methods, and audio. +Prospective Students International undergraduate internships: If you are interested in an internship, you should directly apply through MITACS Globalink . McGill Undergraduate internships: If you are interested in computer animation research and have sufficiently strong marks then you should contact me with respect to NSERC USRA or SURA early in Winter term. Alternatively, for course credit, I supervise COMP 400 and 396 projects, during any term, on appropriate topics. Prospective MSc students: I am interested in working with strong students with computer graphics-related interests and experience. Ideal candidates should be able to demonstrate prior experience and high-level skill in some combination of computer graphics, vision, machine learning, and numerical simulation. Valid experience includes coursework (including my grad course), hobby projects, or internships on topics related to my research area. Feel free to contact me and include [Prospective MSc] at the start of the subject so that I know you have read this far, but also note that you will probably not receive a reply. More information about applicaitons and minimum requirements can be found on the department graduate applications page. Prospective PhD students: The easiest path to becoming a PhD student in my lab is to start an MSc and discover an natural aptitute and productivity that warants converting to PhD. It is also possible to complete an MSc before starting an MSc. Prospective students who wish to apply directly to the PhD program should ideally have a strong MSc in a closely related area from a reputable lab. Other important attributes that strong applicants will have is previous publication in a recognized computer graphics venue, reference letters from top graphics researchers, or work experience in the graphics industry. Feel free to contact me and include [Prospective PhD] at the start of the subject so that I know you have read this far, but also note that you may not receive a reply unless I notice that the information in your email is a particularly good fit. More information about applicaitons and minimum requirements can be found on the department graduate applications page. +Current and Previous Students Current Members Nicholas Leavitt, PhD (on leave) Nick Dudek, MSc Adam Bognat, MSc Lita Fan, MSc Robert Belfer, MSc Kaixiang Xie, MSc Frank Zhang, MSc Project Previous Graduate Students and Post Docs Krisztian Birkas, MSc Keren He, MSc project Keno Dreel, visiting MSc (Copenhagen) Vincent Petrella, MSc (co-supervised) Tim Olsen, visiting MSc (Copenhagen), went to LEGO Sayantan Datta, MSc (co-supervised), became PhD at McGill Benjamin Verdier, MSc, went to Boston University for PhD David Newton, MSc, became Assistant Prof at Nebraska-Lincoln Amir Hossein Rabbani, PhD, went to Ubisoft La Forge Sheldon Andrews , PhD, Postdoc, became Assistant Prof ETS Jian (Ethan) Li, MSc, went to Autodesk Xiaozhong Chen, MSc, went to Ubisoft Brendan Galea, MSc, went to Facebook Ehsan Kia, MSc, went to Google Bndicte Leonard-Cannon, MSc (co-supervised), went to Microsoft Elias Saad, MSc (co-supervised) Pengbo Li, MSc, went to TranscenTEC China Charles Bouchard, MSc, went to GIRO Olivier Remillard, MSc, went to Amazon Timothy Drews, MSc (co-supervised), went to Google Simon Courtemanche, visiting PhD student, INRIA, went to Embisphere Rami Aladdin, MSc, became CTO SWAG Tech Malaysia Cyrus Rahgoshay, MSc, went to CMLabs then Ubisoft Yasaman Sedaghat, MSc (co-supervised), went to Morgan Stanley Victor Cano Becerril, MSc Clement Mattia, MSc (UJF Grenoble) Ben Sprott, MSc, went to Lumentum Maxime Tournier, visiting PhD student, INRIA, became R&D Engineer at Anatoscope Ccile Picard, visiting PhD student, INRIA Matthieu Nesme, post doctorate, became CTO Anatoscope Previous Undergraduates Kejia Ren, Gloablink intern Charles Gingras, USRA intern Paul-Andre Henegar, USRA intern Caroline Zhang,, USRA intern Youri Tamitegama, undergraduate intern Thomas Jansen, undergraduate intern Joao Cardoso, undergraduate intern Franco La Braca, USRA intern Monty Thibault, USRA intern Cornelius Hart, undergraduate intern (co-supervised) Nicholas Aird, undergraduate intern Stefan Tihanyi, undergraduate intern Marc Jarvis, undergraduate intern Galen Voysey, undergraduate intern Thomas Ng, undergraduate intern (co-supervised) Simon Labute, undergraduate intern Gabriel Charette, undergraduate honours project Ben Kirwin, NSERC USRA Alexandre Senecal, undergratuate intern Francis Gurin, undergraduate intern Matthew Williams, undergraduate honours project Jean-Phillipe April, undergraduate honours project Christopher Harvey, undergraduate intern +Computer Animation and Interaction Capture Lab The lab houses a varienty of special equipment, including a 24 camera motion capture system, a set of force plates, an instrumented bouldering wall (currently dissassembled to use the 6 force-torque sensors in other applications), consumer DSLR cameras with modified prime lenses for external control, a high speed 1200 fps consumer camera, left and right data golves, a fleet of crazyflie quadrotor robots, teckscan pressure sensors for hands and feet, high resolution and high frame rate monitors, a laser scanner, 3D printer, and pumps for soft robotics. The lab is moving in 2018 to a share a common space within the Center of Intelligent Machines space with Derek Nowrouzezahrai in order to build a critical mass of students working towards top tier publications in computer graphics. +Workshops 2019 Bellairs Workshop on Computer Animation: Machine learning applications in computer animation 2018 Bellairs Workshop on Computer Animation: Simulation and learning from the living world 2017 Bellairs Workshop on Computer Animation: Inverse modeling problems for physics-based animation 2016 Bellairs Workshop on Computer Animation: Simulation, Digital Fabrication and Robotics 2014 Montreal Fall Graphics Workshop, McGill Gault Nature Reserve 2014 Bellairs Workshop on Computer Animation: Appearance and Motion 2013 Montreal Fall Graphics Retreat - GRAND Caf @ McGill Gault Nature Reserve 2013 Bellairs Workshop on Computer Animation: Physically Based Methods 2012 Montreal Fall Graphics Retreat 2012 Bellairs Workshop on Computer Animation: Pseudospectral Optimal Control for Character Animation 2011 Bellairs Workshop on Computer Animation: GRAND Challenges, Animation and Geometry 2010 Bellairs Workshop on Computer Animation: Reduced Physics, Simulation, and Control 2009 Bellairs Workshop on Computer Animation: Simulated Humans and Animals +Program Committees and Service ACM SIGGRAPH Director at Large 2016-2019 Canadian Human Computer Communications Society, President, since 2014 ACM SIGGRAPH ASIA 2016 ACM SIGGRAPH 2013, 2014, 2016, 2017 Eurographics 2009, 2010, 2014, 2016, 2017 Symposium on Computer Animation 2009 (posters chair), 2010, 2011, 2012 (program co-chair), 2016, 2017 Pacific Graphics 2013 Graphics Interface 2010, 2014 (program co-chair) Motion in Games 2013 ACM SIGGRAPH ASIA 2010 Technical sketches and posters advisory board ACM SIGGRAPH Student Research Competition Jury 2008, 2009 (chair) ACM SIGGRAPH Unified Jury 2008, 2009 Computers and Graphics associate editor, since 2015 Computer Graphics Forum associate editor, since 2015 +Biographical Information Paul G. Kry received his B.Math. in computer science with electrical engineering electives in 1997 from the University of Waterloo, and his M.Sc. and Ph.D. in computer science from the University of British Columbia in 2000 and 2005. He spent time as a visitor at Rutgers during most of his Ph.D., and did postdoctoral work at INRIA Rhne Alpes and the LNRS at Universit Ren Descartes. He is currently an associate professor at McGill University. His research interests are in physically based animation, including deformation, contact, motion editing, and simulated control of locomotion, grasping, and balance. He co-chaired ACM/EG Symposium on Computer Animation in 2012, Graphics Interface in 2014, and served on numerous program committees, including ACM SIGGRAPH, ACM/EG Symposium on Computer Animation, Pacific Graphics, and Graphics Interface. He is currently an associate editor for Computer Graphics Forum, and for Computers and Graphics. He heads the Computer Animation and Interaction Capture Laboratory at McGill University. Paul Kry is currently the president of the Canadian Human Computer Communications Society, the organization which sponsors the annual Graphics Interface conference. Starting September 2016 Paul kry is serving a 3 year term as a director at large on the ACM SIGGRAPH executive committee. McGill University Computer Animation Research YouTube Channel Research Projects and Publications Defocus Discrimination in Vide: Motion in Depth V. A. Petrella, S. Labute, M. S. Langer, P. G. Kry, i-Perception, 2017 We perform two psychophysics experiments to investigate a viewers ability to detect defocus in video; in particular, the defocus that arises in video during motion in depth when the camera does not maintain sharp focus throughout the motion. The first experiment demonstrates that blur sensitivity during viewing is affected by the speed at which the target moves towards the camera. The second experiment measures a viewers ability to notice momentary defocus and shows that the threshold of blur detection in arc minutes decreases significantly as the duration of the blur increases. Our results suggest that it is important to have good control of focus while recording video and that momentary defocus should be kept as short as possible so it goes unnoticed. PAPER SAGE Tethered flight control of a small quadrotor robot for stippling B. Galea, P. G. Kry, IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2017 We investigate tethered flight of a small quadrotor robot in the context of creating stippled prints. At a low level, we use motion capture to measure the position of the robot and the canvas, and a robust control algorithm to command the robot to fly to different stipple positions to make contact with the canvas using an ink soaked sponge. With the objective of fully autonomous flight, we power our quadrotor using a wired tether. We compensate for the tether in our control of the robot by assuming a static catenary curve of fixed length between the robot and the power source. We evaluate accuracy of hovering and flight on simple paths, and compare the results to untethered flight. PAPER VIDEO Task-based design of cable-driven articulated mechanisms J. Li, S. Andrews, K. Birkas, P. G. Kry, Symposium on Computational Fabrication, 2017 We present a framework for the automatic design of articulated cable-driven mechanisms performing push and pick-and-place tasks. Provided an initial topology and task specification, our system optimizes the morphology and cable mechanisms such that the resulting mechanism can perform the desired task successfully. Optimizing for multiple tasks and multiple cables simultaneously is possible with our framework. At the core of our approach is an optimization algorithm that analyzes the kinematics of the design to evaluate the mechanism's ability to perform the task. Dynamical attributes, such as the ability to produce forces at the end effector, are also considered. Furthermore, this paper presents a novel approach for fast inverse kinematics using cable-driven mechanisms, which is used in the morphology optimization process. Several examples of mechanisms designed using our framework are presented. We also present results of physics based simulation, and evaluate 3D printed versions of an example mechanism. PAPER VIDEO PROJECT PAGE Geometric Stiffness for Real-time Constrained Multibody Dynamics S. Andrews, M. Teichmann, P. G. Kry, Eurographics, 2017 This paper focuses on the stable and efficient simulation of articulated rigid body systems for real-time applications. Specifically, we focus on the use of geometric stiffness, which can dramatically increase simulation stability. We examine several numerical problems with the inclusion of geometric stiffness in the equations of motion, as proposed by previous work, and address these issues by introducing a novel method for efficiently building the linear system. This offers improved tractability and numerical efficiency. Furthermore, geometric stiffness tends to significantly dissipate kinetic energy. We propose an adaptive damping scheme, inspired by the geometric stiffness, that uses a stability criterion based on the numerical integrator to determine the amount of non-constitutive damping required to stabilize the simulation. With this approach, not only is the dynamical behavior better preserved, but the simulation remains stable for mass ratios of 1,000,000-to-1 at time steps up to 0.1 s. We present a number of challenging scenarios to demonstrate that our method improves efficiency, and that it increases stability by orders of magnitude compared to previous work. PAPER VIDEO PROJECT PAGE Tunable Robustness: An Artificial Contact Strategy with Virtual Actuator Control for Balance D. B. da Silva, R. F. Nunes, C. A. Vidal, J. B. Cavalcante-Neto, P. G. Kry, V. B. Zordan, Computer Graphics Forum, 2017 Physically based characters have not yet received wide adoption in the entertainment industry because control remains both difficult and unreliable. Even with the incorporation of motion capture for reference, which adds believability, characters fail to be convincing in their appearance when the control is not robust. To address these issues, we propose a simple Jacobian transpose torque controller that employs virtual actuators to create a fast and reasonable tracking system for motion capture. We combine this controller with a novel approach we call the topple-free foot (TFF) strategy which conservatively applies artificial torques to the standing foot to produce a character that is capable of performing with arbitrary robustness. The system is both easy to implement and straightforward for the animator to adjust to the desired robustness, by considering the trade off between physical realism and stability. We showcase the benefit of our system with a wide variety of example simulations, including energetic motions with multiple support contact changes, such as capoeira, as well as an extension that highlights the approach coupled with a Simbicon controlled walker. With this work, we aim to advance the state-of-the-art in the practical design for physically based characters that can employ unaltered reference motion (e.g., motion capture data) and directly adapt it to a simulated environment without the need for optimization or inverse dynamics. WILEY PAGE PAPER VIDEO Postural regulation and motion simulation in rock climbing F. Quaine, L. Reveret, S. Courtemanche, P. G. Kry, The Science of Climbing and Mountaineering, Chapter 7, 2017 The objective of this chapter is to understand the biomechanics of rock climbing based on the forces applied at each support. The mechanical principles of rock climbing biomechanics are presented frst and adapted with different climbing devices used to measure the contact forces. A computational method is presented to overcome the need for a climbing device equipped with three dimensional (3D) force sensors. A simulation method of 3D climbing movements is developed. The frst part of this chapter describes the role of limbs in postural regulation during climbing. Notably, supporting forces depend on the posture of the climber, the number of supports and the climbing wall inclination. We discuss the transition between static postures and movement with dynamic motion of the limbs. The second part of the chapter focuses on the kinematics of rock climbing and introduces a modelling technique for estimating the support forces thanks to motion capture analysis. BOOK PAGE HAL PAGE Ballistic Shadow Art X. Chen, S. Andrews, D. Nowrouzezahrai, P. G. Kry, Graphics Interface, 2017 We present a framework for generating animated shadow art using occluders under ballistic motion. We apply a stochastic optimization to find the parameters of a multi-body physics simulation that produce a desired shadow at a specific instant in time. We perform simulations across many different initial conditions, applying a set of carefully crafted energy functions to evaluate the motion trajectory and multi-body shadows. We select the optimal parameters, resulting in a ballistics simulation that produces ephemeral shadow art. Users can design physically-plausible dynamic artwork that would be extremely challenging if even possible to achieve manually. We present and analyze number of compelling examples. PAPER VIDEO PROJECT PAGE Anticipatory balance control and dimension reduction A. H. Rabbani, M. van de Panne, P. G. Kry, Computer animation & virtual worlds, 2016 A hallmark of many skilled motions is the anticipatory nature of the balance-related adjustments that happen in preparation for the expected evolution of forces during the motion. This can shape simulated and animated motions in subtle but important ways, help lend physical credence to the motion, and help signal the character's intent. In this article, we investigate how center-of-mass reference trajectories (CMRTs) can be learned so as to achieve anticipatory balance control with a state-of-the-art reactive balancing system. This enables the design of physics-based motion simulations that involve fast pose transitions as well as force-based interactions with the environment, such as punches, pushes, and catching heavy objects. We also show that generating CMRTs in a reduced space may result in faster computation times for similar task motions that deal with environmental interactions. We demonstrate the results on planar human models and show that CMRTs generalize well across parameterized versions of a motion. We illustrate that they are also effective at conveying a mismatch between a character's expectations and reality, for example, thinking that an object is heavier than it is. WILEY PAGE VIDEO Adaptive semi-implicit integrator for articulated rigid-body systems J. Hewlett, L. Kovacs, A. Callejo, P. G. Kry, J. Kvecses, J. Angeles, ASME Journal of Computational and Nonlinear Dynamics, 2017 This paper concerns the dynamic simulation of constrained mechanical systems in the context of real-time applications and stable integrators. The goal is to adaptively find a balance between the stability of an over-damped implicit scheme and the energetic consistency of the symplectic, semi-implicit Euler scheme. As a starting point, we investigate in detail the properties of a recently proposed timestepping scheme, which approximates a full nonlinear implicit solution with a single linear system, without compromising stability. This scheme introduces a geometric stiffness term that improves numerical stability up to a certain time-step size, but it does so at the cost of large mechanical dissipation in comparison to the traditional constrained dynamics formulation. Dissipation is sometimes undesirable from a mechanical point of view, especially if the dissipation is not quantified. In this paper, we propose to use an additional control parameter to regulate how implicit the Jacobian matrix is, and change the degree to which the geometric stiffness term contributes. For the selection of this parameter, adaptive schemes are proposed based on the monitoring of energy drift. The proposed adaptive method is verified through the simulation of open-chain systems. ASME.ORG Stippling with aerial robots B. Galea, E. Kia, N. Aird, P. G. Kry, Computational Aesthetics / Expressive, 2016 BEST PAPER We describe a method for creating stippled prints using a quadrotor flying robot. At a low level, we use motion capture to measure the position of the robot and the canvas, and a robust control algorithm to command the robot to fly to different stipple positions to make contact with the canvas using an ink soaked sponge. We describe a collection of important details and challenges that must be addressed for successful control in our implementation, including robot model estimation, Kalman filtering for state estimation, latency between motion capture and control, radio communication interference, and control parameter tuning. We use a centroidal Voronoi diagram to generate stipple drawings, and compute a greedy approximation of the traveling salesman problem to draw as many stipples per flight as possible, while accounting for desired stipple size and dynamically adjusting future stipples based on past errors. An exponential function models the natural decay of stipple sizes as ink is used in a flight. We evaluate our dynamic adjustment of stipple locations with synthetic experiments. Stipples per second and variance of stipple placement are presented to evaluate our physical prints and robot control performance. PAPER VIDEO PROJECT PAGE DefSense: Computational Design of Customized Deformable Input Devices M. Bcher, B. Hepp, F. Pece, P. G. Kry, B. Bickel, B. Thomaszewski, O. Hilliges ACM SIGCHI, 2016 We present a novel optimization-based algorithm for the design and fabrication of customized, deformable input devices, capable of continuously sensing their deformation. We propose to embed piezoresistive sensing elements into flexible 3D printed objects. These sensing elements are then utilized to recover rich and natural user interactions at runtime. Designing such objects manually is a challenging and hard problem for all but the simplest geometries and deformations. Our method simultaneously optimizes the internal routing of the sensing elements and computes a mapping from low-level sensor readings to user-specified outputs in order to minimize reconstruction error. We demonstrate the power and flexibility of the approach by designing and fabricating a set of flexible input devices. Our results indicate that the optimization based design greatly outperforms manual routings in terms of reconstruction accuracy and thus interaction fidelity. PROJECT PAGE AT DRZ PROJECT PAGE AT ETHZ VIDEO PhysIK: Physically plausible and intuitive keyframing A. H. Rabbani, P. G. Kry, Graphics Interface, 2016 We present an approach for animating characters using inverse kinematics (IK) handles that allows for intuitive keyframing of physically plausible motion. Specifically, we extend traditional IK and keyframing to include center-of-mass (CM) and inertia handles along with physically based templates to help an animator produce trajectories that respect physics during dynamic activities, such as swinging, stepping, and jumping. Animators can easily control both posture and physics-based quantities (inertia shape, CM position, and linear momentum) when building motions from scratch, but also have complete freedom to create exaggerated or impossible motions. We present results for a variety of planar characters of different morphologies. PAPER VIDEO Interactive procedural simulation of paper tearing with sound T. Lejemble, A. Fondevilla, N. Durin, T. Blanc-Beyne, C. Schreck, P.-L. Manteaux, P. G. Kry, M.-P. Cani, Motion in Games, 2015 We present a phenomenological model for the real-time simulation of paper tearing and sound. The model uses as input rotations of the hand along with the index and thumb of left and right hands to drive the position and orientation of two regions of a sheet of paper. The motion of the hands produces a cone shaped deformation of the paper and guides the formation and growth of the tear. We create a model for the direction of the tear based on empirical observation, and add detail to the tear with a directed noise model. Furthermore, we present a procedural sound synthesis method to produce tearing sounds during interaction. We show a variety of paper tearing examples and discuss applications and limitations. PROJECT PAGE AT INRIA Blended linear models for reduced compliant mechanical systems S. Andrews, M. Teichmann, P. G. Kry, IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 2015 We present a method for the simulation of compliant, articulated structures using a plausible approximate model that focuses on modeling endpoint interaction. We approximate the structure's behavior about a reference configuration, resulting in a first order reduced compliant system, or FORKS. Several levels of approximation are available depending on which parts and surfaces we would like to have interactive contact forces, allowing various levels of detail to be selected. Our approach is fast and computation of the full structure's state may be parallelized. Furthermore, we present a method for reducing error by combining multiple FORKS models at different linearization points, through twist blending and matrix interpolation. Our approach is suitable for stiff, articulate grippers, such as those used in robotic simulation, or physics-based characters under static proportional derivative control. We demonstrate that simulations with our method can deal with kinematic chains and loops with non-uniform stiffness across joints, and that it produces plausible effects due to stiffness, damping, and inertia. PROJECT PAGE 6D Frictional Contact for Rigid Bodies C. Bouchard, M. Nesme, M. Tournier, B. Wang, F. Faure, P. G. Kry, Graphics Interface, 2015 We present a new approach to modeling contact between rigid objects that augments an individual Coulomb friction point-contact model with rolling and spinning friction constraints. Starting from the intersection volume, we compute a contact normal from the volume gradient. We compute a contact position from the first moment of the intersection volume, and approximate the extent of the contact patch from the second moment of the intersection volume. By incorporating knowledge of the contact patch into a point contact Coulomb friction formulation, we produce a 6D constraint that provides appropriate limits on torques to accommodate displacement of the center of pressure within the contact patch, while also providing a rotational torque due to dry friction to resist spinning. A collection of examples demonstrate the power and benefits of this simple formulation. PROJECT PAGE Anticipatory Balance Control A. H. Rabbani, M. van de Panne, P. G. Kry, ACM SIGGRAPH Conference on Motion in Games, 2014 , SELECTED FOR CAVW A hallmark of many skilled motions is the anticipatory nature of the balance-related adjustments that happen in preparation for the expected evolution of forces during the motion. This can shape simulated and animated motions in subtle-but-important ways, help lend physical credence to the motion, and help signal the character's intent. In this paper, we investigate how center of mass reference trajectories (CMRTs) can be learned in order to achieve anticipatory balance control with a state-of-the-art reactive balancing system. This enables the design of physics-based motion simulations that involve fast pose transitions as well as force-based interactions with the environment, such as punches, pushes, and catching heavy objects. We demonstrate the results on planar human models, and show that CMRTs can generalize across parameterized versions of a motion. We illustrate that they are also effective at conveying a mismatch between a character's expectations and reality, e.g., thinking that an object is heavier than it is. PROJECT PAGE Multi-layer skin simulation with adaptive constraints P. Li, P. G. Kry, ACM SIGGRAPH Conference on Motion in Games, 2014 We present an approach for physics based simulation of the wrinkling of multi-layer skin with heterogeneous material properties. Each layer of skin is simulated with an adaptive mesh, with the different layers coupled via constraints that only permit wrinkle deformation at wavelengths that match the physical properties of the multi-layer model. We use texture maps to define varying elasticity and thickness of the skin layers, and design our constraints as continuous functions, which we discretize at run time to match the changing adaptive mesh topology. In our examples, we use blend shapes to drive the bottom layer, and we present a variety of examples of simulations that demonstrate small wrinkles on top of larger wrinkles, which is a typical pattern seen on human skin. Finally, we show that our physics-based wrinkles can be used in the automatic creation of wrinkle maps, allowing the visual details of our high resolution simulations to be produced at real time speeds. PROJECT PAGE FORK -1 S: Interactive compliant mechanisms with parallel state computation S. Andrews, M. Teichmann, P. G. Kry, ACM SIGGRAPH Symposium on Interactive 3D Graphics and Games, 2014 , SELECTED FOR TVCG We present a method for the simulation of compliant, articulated structures using a plausible approximate model that focuses on modeling endpoint interaction. We approximate the structure's behavior about a reference configuration, resulting in a first order reduced compliant system, or FORK -1 S. Several levels of approximation are available depending on which parts and surfaces we would like to have interactive contact forces, allowing various levels of detail to be selected. Our approach is fast and computation of the full structure's state may be parallelized. Our approach is suitable for stiff, articulate grippers, such as those used in robotic simulation, or physics based characters under static proportional derivative control. We demonstrate that simulations with our method can deal with kinematic chains and loops with non-uniform stiffness across joints, and that it produces plausible effects due to stiffness, damping, and inertia. PDF(0.6 MB) PROJECT PAGE Data-driven Fingertip Appearance for Interactive Hand Simulation S. Andrews, M. Jarvis, P. G. Kry, ACM SIGGRAPH conference on Motion in Games, 2013 Contact on a finger pad results in deformation that redistributes blood within the fingertip tissue in a manner correlated to the pressure. We build a data-driven model that relates contact information to the visible changes of the finger nail and surrounding tissue on the back of the finger tip. Our data analysis and model construction makes use of the space of hemoglobin concentrations, as opposed to an RGB color space, which permits the model to be transferred across different fingers and different people. We use principal component analysis to build a compact model which maps well to graphics hardware with an efficient fragment program implementation. We provide a validation of our model, and a demonstration of a grasping controller running in a physically based simulation, where grip strength is visible in both hand posture and the appearance of color changes at the fingertips. PROJECT PAGE Embedded Thin Shells for Wrinkle Simulation O. Rmillard, P. G. Kry, ACM Transactions on Graphics (SIGGRAPH), 2013 We present a new technique for simulating high resolution surface wrinkling deformations of composite objects consisting of a soft interior and a harder skin. We combine high resolution thin shells with coarse finite element lattices and define frequency based constraints that allow the formation of wrinkles with properties matching those predicted by the physical parameters of the composite object. Our two-way coupled model produces the expected wrinkling behavior without the computational expense of a large number of volumetric elements to model deformations under the surface. We use C1 quadratic shape functions for the interior deformations, allowing very coarse resolutions to model the overall global deformation efficiently, while avoiding visual artifacts of wrinkling at discretization boundaries. We demonstrate that our model produces wrinkle wavelengths that match both theoretical predictions and high resolution volumetric simulations. We also show example applications in simulating wrinkles on passive objects, such as furniture, and for wrinkles on faces in character animation. PROJECT PAGE Goal Directed Multi-Finger Manipulation: Control Policies and Analysis S. Andrews, P. G. Kry, Computers & Graphics, 2013 We present a method for one-handed, task-based manipulation of objects. Our approach uses a mid-level, multi-phase approach to organize the problem into three phases. This provides an appropriate control strategy for each phase and results in cyclic finger motions that, together, accomplish the task. The exact trajectory of the object is never specified since the goal is defined by the final orientation and position of the object. All motion is physically based and guided by a control policy that is learned through a series of offline simulations. We also discuss practical considerations for our learning method. Variations in the synthesized motions are possible by tuning a scalarized multi-objective optimization. We demonstrate our method with two manipulation tasks, discussing the performance and limitations. Additionally, we provide an analysis of the robustness of the low-level controllers used by our framework. PROJECT PAGE Sequential Pose Estimation Using Linearized Rotation Matrices T. M. Drews, P. G. Kry, J. R. Forbes, C. Verbrugge, In 10th Conference on Computer and Robot Vision (CRV), 2013 , BEST PAPER We present a new formulation for pose estimation using an extended Kalman filter that takes advantage of the Lie group structure of rotations. Using the exponential map along with linearized rotations for updates and errors permits a graceful filter formulation that avoids the awkward representation of Euler angles and the required norm constraint for quaternions. We demonstrate this approach with an implementation that uses sensors commonly found in consumer tablets and mobile phones: a camera and gyroscope, which we use to estimate attitude, position, and gyroscope bias. We use gyroscope measurements for prediction, and vision-based measurements for correction. We show results and discuss the performance of our pose estimation method using ground truth data obtained via a motion capture system. PDF(1 MB) Policies for Goal Directed Multi-Finger Manipulation S. Andrews, P. G. Kry, In 9th Workshop on Virtual Reality Interaction and Physical Simulation (VRIPHYS) 2012, BEST PAPER We present a method for one-handed task based manipulation of objects. Our approach uses a mid-level multiphase approach to break the problem into three parts, providing an appropriate control strategy for each phase and resulting in cyclic finger motions that accomplish the task. All motion is physically based, and guided by a policy computed for a particular task. The exact trajectory is never specified as the goal of our different tasks are concerned with the final orientation and position of the object. The offline simulations used to learn the policy are effective solutions for the task, but an important aspect of our work is that the policy is general enough to be used online in real time. We present two manipulation tasks and discuss their performance along with limitations. PDF(1.2 MB) MOVIE (10 MB) Static Pose Reconstruction with an Instrumented Bouldering Wall R. Aladdin, P. G. Kry, VRST, 2012 This paper describes the design and construction of an instrumented bouldering wall, and a technique for estimating poses by optimizing an objective function involving contact forces. We describe the design and calibration of the wall, which can capture the contact forces and torques during climbing while motion capture (MoCap) records the climber pose, and present a solution for identifying static poses for a given set of holds and forces. We show results of our calibration process and static poses estimated for different measured forces. To estimate poses from forces, we use optimization and start with an inexpensive objective to guide the solver toward the optimal solution. When good candidates are encountered, the full objective function is evaluated with a physics-based simulation to determine physical plausibility while meeting additional constraints. Comparison between our reconstructed poses and MoCap show that our objective function is a good model for human posture. PDF(3.4 MB) Modal Vibrations for Character Animation P. G. Kry, Motion in Games, 2012 Modal vibrations can be used as a representation for the motion of an elastic system, decoupling the dynamics into a set of independent equations, and providing a good approximation to the system behavior for small displacements from the equilibrium state. In computer animation, elastic joints are commonly used in the simulation and control of articulated characters, which naturally permits a modal representation. This paper revisits the computation of modes for a skeletal character, and surveys recent work on the use of modal vibrations for kinematic animation of locomotion and jumping, and in the creation of physically based locomotion controllers that exhibit a desired style. Examples of other applications are also presented, and possibilities for future work are discussed. PDF(2.4 MB) Inverse Kinodynamics: Editing and Constraining Kinematic Approximations of Dynamic Motion P. G. Kry, C. Rahgoshay, A. H. Rabbani, K. Singh, Computers & Graphics, 2012 We present inverse kinodynamics (IKD), an animator friendly kinematic work flow that both encapsulates short-lived dynamics and allows precise space-time constraints. Kinodynamics (KD), defines the system state at any given time as the result of a kinematic state in the recent past, physically simulated over a short time window to the present. KD is a well suited kinematic approximation to animated characters and other dynamic systems with dominant kinematic motion and short-lived dynamics. Given a dynamic system, we first choose an appropriate kinodynamic window size based on accelerations in the kinematic trajectory and the physical properties of the system. We then present an inverse kinodynamics (IKD) algorithm, where a kinodynamic system can precisely attain a set of animator constraints at specified times. Our approach solves the IKD problem iteratively, and is able to handle full pose or end effector constraints at both position and velocity level, as well as multiple constraints in close temporal proximity. Our approach can also be used to solve position and velocity constraints on passive systems attached to kinematically driven bodies. We describe both manual and automatic procedures for selecting the kinodynamic window size necessary to approximate the dynamic trajectory to a given accuracy. We demonstrate the convergence properties of our IKD approach, and give details of a typical work flow example that an animator would use to create an animation with our system. We show IKD to be a compelling approach to the direct kinematic control of character, with secondary dynamics via examples of skeletal dynamics and facial animation. PDF(2.7 MB) PROJECT PAGE (conference version) Determining an Aesthetic Inscribed Curve B. Wyvill, P. G. Kry, R. Seidel, D. Mould, Computational Aesthetics / Expressive, 2012 In this work we propose both implicit and parametric curves to represent aesthetic curves inscribed within Voronoi cells in R2. A user survey was conducted to determine, which class of curves are generally accepted as the more aesthetic. We present the curves, the survey results, and the implications for future work on simulating sponge like volumes. PDF(1 MB) Inverse Kinodynamics: Editing and Constraining Kinematic Approximations of Dynamic Motion C. Rahgoshay, A. H. Rabbani, K. Singh, P. G. Kry, Graphics Interface, 2012, BEST PAPER We present inverse kinodynamics (IKD), an animator friendly kinematic workflow that both encapsulates short-lived dynamics and allows precise space-time constraints. Kinodynamics (KD), defines the system state at any given time as the result of a kinematic state in the recent past, physically simulated over a short temporal window to the present. KD is a well suited kinematic approximation to animated characters and other dynamic systems with dominant kinematic motion and short-lived dynamics. Given a dynamic system, we first choose an appropriate kinodynamic window size based on accelerations in the kinematic trajectory and the physical properties of the system. We then present an inverse kinodynamics (IKD) algorithm, where a kinodynamic system can precisely attain a set of animator constraints at specified times. Our approach solves the IKD problem iteratively, and is able to handle full pose or end effector constraints at both position and velocity level, as well as multiple constraints in close temporal proximity. Our approach can also be used to solve position and velocity constraints on passive systems attached to kinematically driven bodies. We show IKD to be a compelling approach to the direct kinematic control of character, with secondary dynamics via examples of skeletal dynamics and facial animation. PDF(4.4 MB) MOVIE (100 MB) PROJECT PAGE Medial Spheres for Shape Approximation S. Stolpner, P. Kry, K. Siddiqi, Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 2012 We study the problem of approximating a 3D solid with a union of overlapping spheres. In comparison with a stateof-the-art approach, our method offers more than an order of magnitude speed-up and achieves a tighter approximation in terms of volume difference with the original solid, while using fewer spheres. The spheres generated by our method are internal and tangent to the solid's boundary, which permits an exact error analysis, fast updates under local feature size preserving deformation, and conservative dilation. We show that our dilated spheres offer superior time and error performance in approximate separation distance tests than the state-of-the-art method for sphere set approximation for the class of (sigma,theta)-fat solids. We envision that our sphere-based approximation will also prove useful for a range of other applications, including shape matching and shape segmentation. PDF(4.4 MB) Using Natural Vibrations to Guide Control for Locomotion R. Nunes, J. Cavalcante-Neto, C. Vidal, P. G. Kry, V. Zordan, ACM Siggraph Symposium on Interactive 3D Graphics and Games (I3D), 2012 Control for physically based characters presents a challenging task because it requires not only the management of the functional aspects that lead to the successful completion of the desired task, but also the resulting movement must be visually appealing and meet the quality requirements of the application. Crafting controllers to generate desirable behaviors is difficult because the specification of the final outcome is indirect and often at odds with the functional control of the task. This paper presents a method which exploits the natural modal vibrations of a physically based character in order to provide a palette of basis coordinations that animators can use to assemble their desired motion. A visual user interface allows an animator to guide the final outcome by selecting and inhibiting the use of specific modes. Then, an optimization routine applies the user-chosen modes in the tuning of parameters for a fixed locomotion control structure. The result is an animation system that is easy for an animator to drive and is able to produce a wide variety of locomotion styles for varying character morphologies. PDF(12 MB) MOVIE [WMV] (56 MB) Generalized Helicoids for Modeling Hair Geometry E. Piuze, P. G. Kry, K. Siddiqi, Eurographics, 2011 In computer graphics, modeling the geometry of hair and hair-like patterns such as grass and fur remains a significant challenge. Hair strands can exist in an extensive variety of arrangements and the choice of an appropriate representation for tasks such as hair synthesis, fitting, editing, or reconstruction from samples, is non-trivial. To support such applications we present a novel mathematical representation of hair based on a class of minimal surfaces called generalized helicoids. This representation allows us to characterize the geometry of a single hair strand, as well as of those in its vicinity, by three intuitive curvature parameters and an elevation angle. We introduce algorithms for fitting piecewise generalized helicoids to unparameterized hair strands, and for interpolating hair between these fits. We showcase several applications of this representation including the synthesis of different hair geometries, wisp generation, hair interpolation from samples and hair-style parametrization and reconstruction from real hair data. PDF(12 MB) PROJECT PAGE Advances in Modal Analysis Using a Robust and Multiscale Method C. Picard, C. Frisson, F. Faure, G. Drettakis, P. G. Kry EURASIP Journal on Advances in Signal Processing, 2010 This paper presents a new approach to modal synthesis for rendering sounds of virtual objects. We propose a generic method that preserves sound variety across the surface of an object at different scales of resolution and for a variety of complex geometries. The technique performs automatic voxelization of a surface model and automatic tuning of the parameters of hexahedral finite elements, based on the distribution of material in each cell. The voxelization is performed using a sparse regular grid embedding of the object, which permits the construction of plausible lower resolution approximations of the modal model. We can compute the audible impulse response of a variety of objects. Our solution is robust and can handle nonmanifold geometries that include both volumetric and surface parts. We present a system which allows us to manipulate and tune sounding objects in an appropriate way for games, training simulations, and other interactive virtual environments. PAPER LINK Volume Contact Constraints at Arbitrary Resolution J. Allard, F. Faure, H. Courtecuisse, F. Falipou, C. Duriez, P. G. Kry, SIGGRAPH, 2010 We introduce a new method for simulating frictional contact between volumetric objects using interpenetration volume constraints. When applied to complex geometries, our formulation results in dramatically simpler systems of equations than those of traditional mesh contact models. Contact between highly detailed meshes can be simplified to a single unilateral constraint equation, or accurately processed at arbitrary geometry-independent resolution with simultaneous sticking and sliding across contact patches. We exploit fast GPU methods for computing layered depth images, which provides us with the intersection volumes and gradients necessary to formulate the contact equations as linear complementarity problems. Straightforward and popular numerical methods, such as projected Gauss-Seidel, can be used to solve the system. We demonstrate our method in a number of scenarios and present results involving both rigid and deformable objects at interactive rates. PDF(12 MB) MOVIE PROJECT PAGE Medial Spheres for Shape Approximation S. Stolpner, P. Kry, K. Siddiqi, Symposium on Brain Body and Machine, 2010 We study the problem of approximating a solid with a union of overlapping spheres. We introduce a method based on medial spheres which, when compared to a state-of-the-art approach, offers more than an order of magnitude speedup and achieves a tighter volumetric approximation of the original mesh, while using fewer spheres. The spheres generated by our method are internal to the object, which permits an exact error analysis and comparison with other sphere approximations. We demonstrate that a tight bounding volume hierarchy of our set of spheres may be constructed using rectangle-swept spheres as bounding volumes. Further, once our spheres are dilated, we show that this hierarchy generally offers superior performance in approximate separation distance tests. PDF(1.8 MB) A Robust and Multi-scale Modal Analysis for Sound Synthesis C. Picard, F. Faure, G. Drettakis, P. G. Kry, DAFX, 2009 This paper presents a new approach to modal synthesis for rendering sounds of virtual objects. We propose a generic method for modal analysis that preserves sound variety across the surface of an object, at different scales of resolution and for a variety of complex geometries. The technique performs automatic voxelization of a surface model and automatic tuning of the parameters of hexahedral finite elements, based on the distribution of material in each cell. The voxelization is performed using a sparse regular grid embedding of the object, which easily permits the construction of plausible lower resolution approximations of the modal model. With our approach, we can compute the audible impulse response of a variety of objects. Our solution is robust and can handle non-manifold geometries that include both volumetric and surface parts, such as those used in games, training simulations, and other interactive virtual environment. PDF(2.7 MB) MOVIE Composite Elements on the iPhone M. Williams, P. G. Kry, SIGGRAPH Demo, 2009 Use your fingers to squish a 3D model, and let gravity make the model tumble against the walls of its environment. C-FEM is an interactive demonstration that runs on the iPhone and iPod touch. The application is a proof of concept which includes examples demonstrating piecewise interpolation and non homogeneous elastic properties. The demo was made available as a free application in late July 2009. PROJECT PAGE C-FEM no longer in app store (email for information) Preserving Topology and Elasticity for Embedded Deformable Models M. Nesme, P. G. Kry, L. Jebkov, F. Faure, SIGGRAPH, 2009 In this paper we introduce a new approach for the embedding of linear elastic deformable models. Our technique results in significant improvements in the efficient physically based simulation of highly detailed objects. First, our embedding takes into account topological details, that is, disconnected parts that fall into the same coarse element are simulated independently. Second, we account for the varying material properties by computing stiffness and interpolation functions for coarse elements which accurately approximate the behavior of the embedded material. Finally, we also take into account empty space in the coarse embeddings, which provides a better simulation of the boundary. The result is a straightforward approach to simulating complex deformable models with the ease and speed associated with a coarse regular embedding, and with a quality of detail that would only be possible at much finer resolution. PROJECT PAGE PDF(5 MB) MOVIE[DivX AVI] (29.2 MB) Modal Locomotion: Animating Virtual Characters with Natural Vibrations P. G. Kry, L. Reveret, F. Faure, and M.-P.Cani, Eurographics, 2009 We present a general method to intuitively create a wide range of locomotion controllers for 3D legged characters. The key of our approach is the assumption that efficient locomotion can exploit the natural vibration modes of the body, where these modes are related to morphological parameters such as the shape, size, mass, and joint stiffness. The vibration modes are computed for a mechanical model of any 3D character with rigid bones, elastic joints, and additional constraints as desired. A small number of vibration modes can be selected with respect to their relevance to locomotion patterns and combined into a compact controller driven by very few parameters. We show that these controllers can be used in dynamic simulations of simple creatures, and for kinematic animations of more complex creatures of a variety of shapes and sizes. PDF (0.7MB) MOVIE[XVID AVI] (17MB) DOG TROT[WMV] (1.7MB) DOG GALLOP[WMV] (1.1MB) A Multi-modal Floor-space for Experiencing Material Deformation Underfoot in Virtual Reality A. W. Law, B. V. Peck, Y. Visell, P. G. Kry, and J. R. Cooperstock, IEEE International Workshop on Haptic Audio Visual Environments and Games, 2008 We present a floor-space design that provides the impression of walking on various terrains by rendering graphical, audio and haptic stimuli synchronously with low latency. Currently, interactive floors tend to focus on visual and auditory feedback but have neglected to explore the role of haptics. Our design recreates these three modalities in a direct manner where the sensors and reactive cues are located in the same area. The goal of this project is the creation of a realistic and dynamic area of ground that allows multiple, untethered users to engage in intuitive interaction via locomotion in a virtual or augmented reality environment. PDF (0.8MB) HandNavigator: Hands-on Interaction for Desktop Virtual Reality P. G. Kry, A. Pihuit, A. Bernhert, and M.-P. Cani, VRST, 2008 This paper presents a novel interaction system, aimed at hands-on manipulation of digital models through natural hand gestures. Our system is composed of a new physical interaction device coupled with a simulated compliant virtual hand model. The physical interface consists of a SpaceNavigator, augmented with pressure sensors to detect directional forces applied by the user's fingertips. This information controls the position, orientation, and posture of the virtual hand in the same way that the SpaceNavigator (an isometric input device) uses measured forces to animate a virtual frame. In this manner, user control does not involve fatigue due to reaching gestures or holding a desired hand shape. During contact, the user has a realistic visual feedback in the form of plausible interactions between the virtual hand and its environment, while our device provides some passive tactile feedback. Our device is well suited to any situation where hand gesture, contact, or manipulation tasks need to be performed in virtual. We demonstrate the device in several simple virtual worlds and evaluate it through a series of user studies. PDF (4MB) MOVIE[MOV] (7MB) Animating Virtual Character Locomotion and Other Oscillatory Motions P. G. Kry, L. Reveret, F. Faure, M.-P.Cani Cognitive Animation Workshop 2008 / SIGGRAPH Sketches 2007 We present a method for animating locomotion of physically based virtual characters. The key to our approach is based on the observation that efficient locomotion should exploit the natural passive response of the character's dynamical system. We specifically focus on the natural vibration modes, which are affected by parameters such as shape, size, mass, and joint stiffness. From these modal vibrations we can extract the most promising modes with respect to locomotion, and combine them with different amplitudes, phases, and frequencies to animate various gaits. To create locomotion controllers, the search for control parameters is reduced since we only need to consider a small number of modes rather than a large number of degrees of freedom. This can be done by optimization, guided by captured motion analysis, but is also easy enough to do by hand. Mode shapes are also useful as a low dimensional basis for interactive puppetry, and may lead to simplifications in the higher level control of other movements. PDF (1MB) Hands-on Virtual Clay / La sculpture virtuelle porte de main A. Pihuit, P. G. Kry, M.-P.Cani SMI 2008 / AFRV 2007 This project concerns a new interaction system designed for hands-on 3D shape modeling and deformation through natural hand gestures. Our system is made of a Phantom haptic device coupled with a deformable foam ball that supports pressure sensors. These sensors detect forces exerted by the users fingertips, and are used to control the configuration of a compliant virtual hand that is modeling soft virtual clay. During interaction, the user is provided both passive tactile feedback through the foam ball, and realistic visual feedback since the virtual hand deforms due to its interaction in the virtual environment. The combination of all these feedbacks provides the artist with a good immersion allowing for effective sculpting in a virtual world. PDF (0.7MB) Grasp Recognition and Manipulation with the Tango P. G. Kry and D. K. Pai, ISER, 2006 We describe a novel user interface for natural, whole hand interaction with 3D environments. Our interface uses a graspable device called the Tango, which looks like a ball but measures contact pressures on its surface at 256 tactual elements (taxels) at a high rate (100 Hz). The acceleration of the device is also measured. The key idea is to use this information to recognize the shape and movement of the users hand grasping the object. This allows the user to interact with 3D virtual objects using a hand avatar. The interface provides passive force feedback, and is easier to use than interfaces that require wearing gloves or other sensors on the hand. We describe a rotationally invariant matching algorithm for recognizing the hand shape from examples of previous interaction collected with motion capture. We also describe examples of 3D interaction using our system. PDF (2.5MB) MOVIE[WMV] (12MB) Interaction Capture and Synthesis P. G. Kry and D. K. Pai, ACM Transactions on Graphics, 25:3 (SIGGRAPH), 2006 Modifying motion capture to satisfy the constraints of new animation is difficult when contact is involved, and a critical problem for animation of hands. The compliance with which a character makes contact also reveals important aspects of the movements purpose. We present a new technique called interaction capture, for capturing these contact phenomena. We capture contact forces at the same time as motion, at a high rate, and use both to estimate a nominal reference trajectory and joint compliance. Unlike traditional methods, our method estimates joint compliance without the need for motorized perturbation devices. New interactions can then be synthesized by physically based simulation. We describe a novel position-based linear complementarity problem formulation that includes friction, breaking contact, and the compliant coupling between contacts at different fingers. The technique is validated using data from previous work and our own perturbation-based estimates. PDF (8MB) BIBTEX MOVIE [WMV] (7MB) Interaction Capture and Synthesis of Human Hands P. G. Kry, PhD Thesis , 2005 This thesis addresses several issues in modelling interaction with human hands in computer graphics and animation. Modifying motion capture to satisfy the constraints of new animation is difficult when contact is involved because physical interaction involves energy or power transfer between the system of interest and the environment, and is a critical problem for computer animation of hands. Although contact force measurements provide a means of monitoring this transfer, motion capture as currently used for creating animation has largely ignored contact forces. We present a system of capturing synchronized motion and contact forces, called interaction capture. We transform interactions such as grasping into joint compliances and a nominal reference trajectory in an approach inspired by the equilibrium point hypothesis of human motor control. New interactions are synthesized through simulation of a quasi-static compliant articulated model in a dynamic environment that includes friction. This uses a novel position-based linear complementarity problem formulation that includes friction, breaking contact, and coupled compliance between contacts at different fingers. We present methods for reliable interaction capture, addressing calibration, force estimation, and synchronization. Additionally, although joint compliances are traditionally estimated with perturbation-based methods, we introduce a technique that instead produces estimates without perturbation. We validate our results with data from previous work and our own perturbation-based estimates. A complementary goal of this work is hand-based interaction in virtual environments. We present techniques for whole-hand interaction using the Tango, a novel sensor that performs interaction capture by measuring pressure images and accelerations. We approximate grasp hand-shapes from previously observed data through rotationally invariant comparison of pressure measurements. We also introduce methods involving heuristics and thresholds that make reliable drift-free navigation possible with the Tango. Lastly, rendering the skin deformations of articulated characters is a fundamental problem for computer animation of hands. We present a deformation model, called EigenSkin, which provides a means of rendering physically- or example-based deformation models at interactive rates on graphics hardware. PDF PRINT QUALITY (37.2MB) PDF WEB (7.1MB) BIBTEX MOVIE EXAMPES [WMV] (8MB) MOVIE CAPTURED GRASP [WMV] (1.7MB) MOVIE GRASP ON APPLE [WMV] (1.0MB) MOVIE GRASP ON BULB [WMV] (0.7MB) MOVIE BULB MANIPULATION [WMV] (7.4MB) The Tango: a tangible tangoreceptive whole-hand human interface D. K. Pai, E. W. VanDerLoo, S. Sadhukhan, and P. G. Kry, World Haptics Symposium , 2005 We describe the Tango, a new passive haptic interface for whole-hand interaction with 3D objects. The Tango is shaped like a ball and can be grasped comfortably in one hand. Its pressure sensitive skin measures the contact pressures exerted by the user's hand, and accelerometers within the device measure its motion and attitude. This information can be used for novel modes of interaction with three dimensional objects. We describe the design of the device, and the software for interpreting the sensor data for user interaction. PDF (1.2MB) BIBTEX Continuous Contact Simulation for Smooth Surfaces P. G. Kry, and D. K. Pai, ACM Transactions on Graphics , 22:1, 2003 Dynamics simulation of smooth surfaced rigid bodies in contact is a critical problem in physically based animation and interactive virtual environments. We describe a technique which uses reduced coordinates to evolve a single continuous contact between smooth piece-wise parametric surfaces. The incorporation of friction into our algorithm is straightforward. The dynamics equations, though slightly more complex due to the reduced coordinate formulation, can be integrated easily using explicit integrators without the need for constraint stabilization. Because the reduced coordinates confine integration errors within the constraint manifold, a large choice of step sizes are possible with visually acceptable results. We demonstrate these results using Loop Subdivision surfaces with parametric evaluation. PDF (1.8MB) BIBTEX MOVIE [AVI-MPG4] (10.5MB) EigenSkin: Real Time Large Deformation Character Skinning in Graphics Hardware P. G. Kry, D. L. James, and D. K. Pai, ACM SIGGRAPH Symposium on Computer Animation , 2002 We present a technique which allows subtle nonlinear quasistatic deformations of articulated characters to be compactly approximated by data-dependent eigenbases which are optimized for real time rendering on commodity graphics hardware. The method extends the common Skeletal-Subspace Deformation (SSD) technique to provide efficient approximations of the complex deformation behaviors exhibited in simulated, measured, and artist-drawn characters. Instead of storing displacements for key poses (which may be numerous), we precompute principal components of the deformation influences for individual kinematic joints, and so construct error-optimal eigenbases describing each joint's deformation subspace. Pose-dependent deformations are then expressed in terms of these reduced eigenbases, allowing precomputed coefficients of the eigenbasis to be interpolated at run time. Vertex program hardware can then efficiently render nonlinear skin deformations using a small number of eigendisplacements stored in graphics hardware. We refer to the final resulting character skinning construct as the model's EigenSkin . Animation results are presented for a very large nonlinear finite element model of a human hand rendered in real time at minimal cost to the main CPU. PDF(5.5MB) BIBTEX MOVIE [AVI-MPG4] (18.4MB) SHADOW PUPPET MOVIE [AVI-MPG4] (23MB) PROJECT PAGE FoleyAutomatic: Physically-based Sound Effects for Interactive Simulation and Animation K. van den Doel, P. G. Kry, and D. K. Pai, SIGGRAPH 2001 We describe algorithms for real-time synthesis of realistic sound effects for interactive simulations (e.g., games) and animation. These sound effects are produced automatically, from 3D models using dynamic simulation and user interaction. We develop algorithms that are efficient, physically-based, and can be controlled by users in natural ways. We develop effective techniques for producing high quality continuous contact sounds from dynamic simulations running at video rates which are slow relative to audio synthesis. We accomplish this using modal models driven by contact forces modeled at audio rates, which are much higher than the graphics frame rate. The contact forces can be computed from simulations or can be custom designed. We demonstrate the effectiveness with complex realistic simulations. PDF (1.1MB) BIBTEX MOVIE [MPG] (12.7MB) Fast Contact Evolution for Piecewise Smooth Surfaces P. G. Kry, Master's Thesis , 2000 Dynamics simulation of smooth bodies in contact is a critical problem in physically based animation and interactive virtual environments. We describe a technique which uses reduced coordinates to evolve a single continuous contact between Loop subdivision surfaces. The incorporation of both slip and no-slip friction into our algorithm is straightforward. The dynamics equations, though slightly more complex due to the reduced coordinate formulation, can be integrated easily using explicit integrators without the need for constraint stabilization. The use of reduced coordinates also confines integration errors to lie within the constraint manifold which is preferable for visualization. Our algorithm is suitable for piecewise parametric or parameterizable surfaces with polygonal domain boundaries. Because a contact will not always remain in the same patch, we demonstrate how a contact can be evolved across patch boundaries. We also address the issue of non-regular parameterizations occurring in Loop subdivision surfaces through surface replacement with n sided S-patch surfaces. Three simulations show our results. We partially verify our technique first with a frictionless system and then with a blob sliding and rolling inside a bowl. Our third simulation shows that our formulation correctly predicts the spin reversal of a rattleback top. We also present timings of the various components of the algorithm. SEE TOG PAPER RATTLEBACK MOVIE [MPG] (1.2MB) Forward Dynamics Algorithms for Multibody Chains and Contact D. K. Pai, U. M. Ascher, and P. G. Kry, ICRA 2000 We describe a framework for derivation of several forward dynamics algorithms used in robotics. The framework is based on formulating an augmented system and performing block matrix elimination on this system. Several popular algorithms such as the O(N) Articulated Body method, and Composite Rigid Body method can be easily derived. We also derive an algorithm for simulation of contact between smooth bodies of arbitrary shape, in contact coordinates. Finally, we discuss some potential numerical difficulties that could arise and their solution. PDF (0.2MB) BIBTEX var sc_project=1446358; var sc_invisible=1; var sc_partition=13; var sc_security="855e31e7"; 
