 Toggle navigation Home News Recent News Press Coverages Biography Research Projects Selected Project Demos Sample Impact to Industry Publications Books Representative Publications Full Publications Awards Students Current students Alumni Prospective students Professional Services Teaching Sponsors New: I am serving as the General Co-chair (with Prof. Rasit Eskicioglu) of The 2019 ACM/IEEE Cyber-Physical Systems and Internet of Things Week (CPS-IoT Week 2019) to be held in Montreal! Please consider submitting your best work to the 5 co-located exciting ACM and IEEE conferences! -- ICCPS, IPSN, RTAS, HSCC, IoTDI New: I am honored to be selected as the recipient for The 2017 Mitacs Award for Exceptional Leadership -- Professor New: I am co-chairing (with Prof. Paulo Tabuada from UCLA) The 9th ACM/IEEE International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems (ICCPS 2018) . Please consider submitting your best work! New: New book Sustainable Transportation with Electric Vehicles published. New: I am co-chairing (with Prof. Krithi Ramamritham from IIT) ACM e-Energy 2017 . Please consider submitting your best work! New: I am co-chairing (with Prof. Klara Nahrstedt from UIUC) IEEE SMARTCOMP 2017 . Please consider submitting your best work! Please consider submitting your best work! Xue (Steve) Liu Professor, and William Dawson Scholar , School of Computer Science , and Professor (Courtesy appointments), Dept. of Mathematics and Statistics , and Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering , McGill University (See McGill's Reputation and Ranking ) I am a faculty and associate member of Montreal Institute for Learning Algorithms (MILA) I am also serving as the Chief Scientist of Tinder Inc., which is the World's largest dating and social discovery app. Swipe Right! :-) I am a Mentor and Fellow of TandemLaunch , which is a unique Startup Foundry based in Montreal. I have been a Technical Advisor of Aerial Technologies since 2015. Aerial is a startup company that integrates the power of wireless communications and artificial intelligence. It has raised $7.4 million fundings so far, from Intel Capital, Fonds Innovexport, Kibo Ventures, and Telefnica Open Innovation, etc. I am an Advisor of Learnable Inc. , which is a human-centered smart education company powered by advanced AI. It was orginated from the Harvard Innovation Lab. I am a Advisor of QuindiTech . QuindiTech is a startup company that develops AI-powered skin diseases detection and recognition system and builds self-service health center empowered with AI analytics. Service on Scientific Journal Editorial Boards: Editor, IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking (ToN), 2016-Present Associate Editor, ACM Transactions on Cyber-Physical Systems (TCPS), 2016-Present Editor, IEEE Communications Surveys and Tutorials (COMST), 2013- Present Editor, IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology (TVT), 2013-2017 Associate Editor, IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems (TPDS), 2013-2015 Affiliations : Cyber-Physical Intelligence Lab Montreal Institute for Learning Algorithms (MILA) . Centre for Intelligent Machines (CIM) Centre for Advanced Systems & Technologies in Communications (SYTACom) TandemLaunch Startup Foundry Other Profiles on the Internet: Google Scholar Page , LinkedIn , Facebook Office: McConnell Engineering Building, Room 326 E-Mail: x...@c....ca (this is to reduce spams) Phone: (Blurred image to reduce spams) Fax: Mailing Address: 3480 University Street, Room 318 Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3A 0E9 Research Interests Internet of Things (IoT), Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) Machine Learning, Big Data, and Applications Green IT, Sustainability, and Smart Energy Systems Computer Systems and Networking Internet and Data Centers Quick Links What's New Cyber-Physical Intelligence Lab Representative Publications Press Coverages Interested in working in my group? Please see Open Positions (Prospective Students) Interested in studying at McGill? Please see McGill's Reputation and Ranking New Books: Searchable Storage in Cloud Computing Sustainable Transportation with Electric Vehicles Datacenter Power Management in Smart Grids Utilization Control and Optimization of Real-Time Embedded Systems (function(i, s, o, g, r, a, m) { i['GoogleAnalyticsObject'] = r; i[r] = i[r] || function() { (i[r].q = i[r].q || []).push(arguments) }, i[r].l = 1 * new Date(); a = s.createElement(o), m = s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0]; a.async = 1; a.src = g; m.parentNode.insertBefore(a, m) })(window, document, 'script', '//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js', 'ga'); ga('create', 'UA-274820-2', 'auto'); ga('send', 'pageview'); 
