 Muthucumaru Maheswaran Associate Professor School of Computer Science Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering McGill University McConnell Engineering Building, Room 754 3480 University Street Montreal, QC, H3A 2A7 Canada Web: http://www.cs.mcgill.ca/~maheswar Email: maheswar at cs.mcgill.ca Phone: (514) 398-1465 FAX: (514) 398-3883 Brief Biography McGill University Welcome to my world-wide web site! I am an associate professor at the School of Computer Science and Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering of McGill University, Canada. I joined McGill on January 2003. Before joining McGill, I was working at the University of Manitoba for four years from 1998 to 2002. I was an assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science of the University of Manitoba. I received my BSc degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from University of Peradeniya, Sri Lanka in 1990. In 1994, I received a MSEE degree in Electrical Engineering from School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana, USA. From the same school I also received a PhD in Computer Engineering in December 1998. I was a Fulbright Scholar from 1992 to 1994 while I was pursuing my MSEE at Purdue University. Research Interests University of Manitoba My research interests are in the general areas of Computer Networking, Information Security, and Distributed Systems. More specifically, I am working on the following topics: Leveraging Social Factors for Securing Networked Systems: Game theoretic modeling of social interactions in networked systems; implicit authentication using social factors for mobile computing scenarios; developing unconventional approaches for digital rights management using social factors; social accountable networking on the Internet. Utility and Grid Computing: Resource management for Grid platforms with dedicated and nondedicated resources; resource discovery substrates for distributed Grid computing systems; trust management and incorporating user-contributed resources into a utility. Computer Networking Toolkits: Design and implementation of user-level networking toolkits for teaching and learning networks. I am directing the research activities at the Advanced Networking Research Lab that is one of the labs associated with the School of Computer Science. Currently, my research is supported by NSERC (Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada), McGill, and TRLabs. Please visit the ANRL Lab homepage to learn more about my research group's activities. Publications You can access most of my current and/or recent publications from the ANRL website . This site does not include old publications that were part of my PhD work. Teaching Activities Purdue Train I teach graduate-level and senior-level undergraduate courses. A the undergraduate level, I am teaching courses in operating systems, fault-tolerent computing, introduction to software engineering (only once), and computer architecture. At the graduate level, I have taught courses in network computing (only once) and computer networks. I have used WebCT for most (may be all) of my courses. As a result, the course content is not on the web. Last modified: September 19, 2009 M. Maheswaran / McGill University / maheswar at cs.mcgill.ca 
