 Enter search text All the UW Current site All the UW Current site Skip to main content University of Washington University of Washington Give to ECE Quick Links Menu News + Events Events Calendar Research Colloquium Lytle Lecture Series Graduation Capstone Fair Electrical Engineering Kaleidoscope The Integrator Newsletter People Faculty Staff Emeritus Faculty Adjunct Faculty Affiliate Faculty Academics Bachelor of Science Combined BS-MS Masters & Ph.D. Professional Masters Program Non-Degree Options Research Biosystems Computing and Networking Data Sciences Photonics and Nano Devices Power and Energy Systems Robotics and Controls Research Centers Research Labs Research Projects Innovation Engineering Entrepreneurial Capstone Washington Nanofabrication Facility Makerspace: Accelerating Innovation SNUPI: Home Monitoring Systems BluHaptics: Underwater Robots with Human Touch WiBotic: Wireless Power for Robots Get Involved Researchers Industry Sponsors Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Give to UW ECE About Message from the Chair Office of the Chair Contact Us ABET Accreditation News + Events Events Calendar Research Colloquium Lytle Lecture Series Graduation Capstone Fair Electrical Engineering Kaleidoscope The Integrator Newsletter People Faculty Staff Emeritus Faculty Adjunct Faculty Affiliate Faculty Academics Bachelor of Science Combined BS-MS Masters & Ph.D. Professional Masters Program Non-Degree Options Research Biosystems Computing and Networking Data Sciences Photonics and Nano Devices Power and Energy Systems Robotics and Controls Research Centers Research Labs Research Projects Innovation Engineering Entrepreneurial Capstone Washington Nanofabrication Facility Makerspace: Accelerating Innovation SNUPI: Home Monitoring Systems BluHaptics: Underwater Robots with Human Touch WiBotic: Wireless Power for Robots Get Involved Researchers Industry Sponsors Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Give to UW ECE About Message from the Chair Office of the Chair Contact Us ABET Accreditation James A. Ritcey Professor Home People James A. Ritcey James A. Ritcey arrived at UW EE in 1985, after completing his Ph.D. in electrical engineering (communication theory and systems) at the University of California, San Diego. Before that he worked at GE on airborne electronic systems including communications and radar. Since coming to UW, Ritcey has worked in a number of statistical signal processing areas, with his largest focus being on array signal processing for radar and underwater acoustics, and iterative decoders for wireless comm. Most recently he has been interested in Massive MIMO, network security and computational methods. He has been funded by ONR, NSF, ARO and NUWC, and has consulted for many Tech Companies in the greater Seattle area. He was awarded the IEEE Fellow award for these contributions. Ritcey is active on the Steering Committee for Asilomar Conference on SIgnals, Systems and Computers where he chairs the Nominations Committee. He is a past General Chair of ICC, and has served on numerous program committees. Within the Department of Electrical Engineering he has served in many capacities including as coordinator for the undergraduate and graduate programs and for the Professional Masters Program. He has also served as Associate Chair for Education (2006-2011) and has received the chairs award for founding the UW EE Professional Masters Program. Research Interests Statistical signal processing for radar, sonar and biomedicine; underwater acoustic communications; wireless communications; network security; and computational methods. Latest Awards Bhringer, Ritcey named 2011 IEEE Fellows Representative Publications Chindapol, A. and Ritcey, J.A., 2001. Design, analysis, and performance evaluation for BICM-ID with square QAM constellations in Rayleigh fading channels. Selected Areas in Communications, IEEE Journal on, 19(5), pp.944-957. Tague, P., Nabar, S., Ritcey, J.A. and Poovendran, R., 2011. Jamming-aware traffic allocation for multiple-path routing using portfolio selection. Networking, IEEE/ACM Transactions on, 19(1), pp.184-194. Reinhardt, C.N., Tsintikidis, D., Hammel, S., Kuga, Y., Ritcey, J.A. and Ishimaru, A., 2012. Atmospheric channel transfer function estimation from experimental free-space optical communications data. Optical Engineering,51(3), pp.031205-1. Gholizadeh, M.H., Amindavar, H. and Ritcey, J.A., 2013. Analytic Nakagami fading parameter estimation in dependent noise channel using copula. EURASIP Journal on Advances in Signal Processing, 2013(1), pp.1-11. [ Link ] S.H. Fouladi, M. Hajiramezanali, H. Amindavar, J.A. Ritcey, and P. Arabshahi, "Denoising based on multivariate stochastic volatility modeling of multiwavelet coefficients," IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, vol. 61, no. 22, Nov. 2013. Xia, M., Rouseff, D., Ritcey, J.A., Zou, X., Polprasert, C. and Xu, W., 2014. Underwater Acoustic Communication in a Highly Refractive Environment Using SCFDE. Oceanic Engineering, IEEE Journal of, 39(3), pp.491-499. Phone 206-543-4702 Email ritcey@ece.uw.edu Mail 454 EEB LinkedIn Research Labs Network Security Lab Research Areas Computing and Networking Affiliations Fellow IEEE Education Ph.D. Electrical Engineering University of California, San Diego M.S. Electrical Engineering Syracuse University B.S. Electrical Engineering Duke University Connect with ECE: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn University of Washington Be boundless Accessibility Contact Us Campus Safety My UW Privacy Terms 2019 University of Washington | Seattle, WA 
