 Joelle Pineau's webpage at McGill Research Publications Students Teaching COMP-102 COMP-424 COMP-551 Contact News: Looking for the Machine Learning Reproducibility Checklist ? Use this before your next paper submission to ensure you don't miss important details! Current status and openings: I currently share my time between McGill and Facebook. For 2019-2020 I will not be taking new graduate students at McGill; I do have a 1-2 postdoc positions open for early career researchers with a PhD in CS or related field, expertise in machine learning, and solid publication record in top venues (NIPS, ICML, IJCAI, AAAI, ICLR). Unfortunately I am not able to host international visitors or interns. McGill CS undergraduate students who have taken COMP-424 or COMP-551 are invited to contact one of my postdocs to inquire about possible research projects; contact them 2 weeks before the semester for a 3 or 4 credit research course, and in January for a summer full-time internship (positions are very limited). Bio: Joelle Pineau is an Associate Professor and William Dawson Scholar at McGill University where she co-directs the Reasoning and Learning Lab . She also leads the Facebook AI Research lab in Montreal, Canada. She holds a BASc in Engineering from the University of Waterloo , and an MSc and PhD in Robotics from Carnegie Mellon University . Dr. Pineau's research focuses on developing new models and algorithms for planning and learning in complex partially-observable domains. She also works on applying these algorithms to complex problems in robotics, health care, games and conversational agents. She serves on the editorial board of the Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research and the Journal of Machine Learning Research and is currently President of the International Machine Learning Society . She is a recipient of NSERC's E.W.R. Steacie Memorial Fellowship (2018), a Fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) , a Senior Fellow of the Canadian Institute for Advanced Research (CIFAR) and in 2016 was named a member of the College of New Scholars, Artists and Scientists by the Royal Society of Canada . 
