 Research interests/Bio Publications CV [updated Feb 2019] Teaching Resources Useful NLP/ML tutorials Annie Louis Research Associate Institute for Adaptive and Neural Computation , School of Informatics , University of Edinburgh Turing Research Fellow Alan Turing Institute I develop natural language processing and machine learning techniques, specially for discourse and pragmatic level language understanding and generation. My work focuses both on understanding how people use language, as well as the application of technology to solve problems in information retrieval, social media analysis, and software engineering. In particular, I am interested in modeling how documents and conversations are structured, what impressions are made by texts on readers and listeners, and conversely, what we can learn about people from what they have said or written. Currently, I'm at the University of Edinburgh working with Charles Sutton on models of computer programs. I'm part of the MAST research group, and the EdinburghNLP group. I'm also a Turing Research Fellow at the Alan Turing Institute , UK's national institute for data science and artificial intelligence. Previously, I was a Newton International Fellow here at Edinburgh, in the Institute for Language, Cognition and Computation . During my PhD, I was part of the NLP group at the University of Pennsylvania . I received my undergraduate degree in Computer Science and Engineering from College of Engineering-Guindy, Anna University located at Chennai, India. I was born in Trichy , a beautiful temple city in South India. Recent Associate editor, Discourse and Dialogue (D&D) journal. Demo co-chair, NAACL 2019 Ieva Staliunaite, Hannah Rohde, Bonnie Webber and Annie Louis, "Getting to Hearer-old : Charting Referring Expressions Across Time" Proceedings of EMNLP 2018. Annie Louis, Santanu Kumar Dash, Earl T. Barr and Charles Sutton, "Deep Learning to Detect Redundant Method Comments" , 2018 (arXiv:1806.04616). Contact alouis at inf dot ed dot ac dot uk Office: 3.38 School of Informatics University of Edinburgh 10 Crichton Street, Edinburgh EH8 9AB 
