 bruce shepherd Research Courses Supervision Canadam Bellairs DMO Seminar Bio Contact Research Technical interests :optimization, algorithms, convex geometry and polyhedral combinatorics, graph theory. Applied interests: real-time optimization, network routing and design, scheduling, pricing optimization. papers selected publications some applications to other fields I enjoy applying technical methods to questions arising in essentially any field, such as: a game-theoretic approach to understand interdomain peering behaviour: Strategic network formation and local peering contracts. E. Anshelevich, B. Shepherd, G. Wilfong Games and Economic Behaviour. 2011. a machine learning approach to mapping/clustering IP addresses: Cluster and Server Selection Using Passive Monitoring M. Andrews, A. Srinivasan, B. Shepherd, P. Winkler, F. Zane Infocom 2002 large scale integer programming for job migration in data centers: Topology-Aware VM Migration in Bandwidth Oversubscribed Datacenter Networks N. Jain, I. Menache, S. Naor, B. Shepherd ICALP 2012 . a graph-theoretic model for BGP routing: The Stable Paths Problem and Interdomain Routing T. Griffin, B. Shepherd, G. Wilfong robust optimization applied to network design: Shortest Path versus Multi-hub Routing in Networks with Uncertain Demand A. Fr\'echette, B. Shepherd, M. Thottan, P. Winzer Infocom 2013 . Duis dictum lorem metus, vitae dapibus . Math 597 / Comp 554. Submodular Optimization (Winter 2017) Math 240. Discrete Structures I (Winter 2017) Submodular Optimization Math 597 / Comp 554 (Winter 2017). This course is an introduction to submodular optimization. Burnside Hall 1205. Monday 2:30-4:00. Wednesday 1:30-3:00. read more course outline Math 597 / Comp 554. (Winter 2017) Submodular set functions have played a central role in the development of combinatorial optimization and could be viewed as the discrete analogue of convex functions. Submodularity has also been a useful model in areas such as economics, supply chain management and recently algorithmic game theory and machine learning. There has been a huge amount of work recently in approximation algorithms for various constrained submodular optimization models arising in practice, perhaps most prominently the social welfare maximization problem. We develop the basic properties of submodular functions and then present both classical methods and recent trends. Topics include: algorithms for unconstrained submodular maximization and minimization, polymatroids, local greedy algorithms, multilinear extensions and pipage rounding, Lovasz Extension and convex minimization, matroid constraints, multi-agent optimization, and many applications. Most materials will be shared online at MyCourses including a schedule of lecture topics. Discrete Structures I Math 240 (Winter 2017). This is a first course in discrete mathematics. read more course outline Math 240. (Winter 2017) Mathematical foundations of logical thinking and reasoning. Sequences and sets. Mathematical language and proof techniques. Functions and relations. Elementary number theory. Combinatorial enumeration. Introduction to graph theory. Further information is available here . Mathematical Programming Math 417-487-699 (Fall 2015). This is an introduction to mathematical optimization, also known as mathematical programming. course outline read more --> Graduate Students and Post-docs Richard Santiago Torres (PhD, submodular optimization) Chenglong Zou (PhD, lift and project methods for disjoint paths and sparsest cuts) Evan DeCorte (Post-doctoral fellow) former students Students Richard Santiago Torres (PhD), Chenglong Zou (PhD). Bio Bio Bruce Shepherd is a member of the Department of Mathematics and Statistics, McGill University where he has held the position of James McGill Professor (internal equivalent of a Tier 1 Canada Research Chair) since 2007. He is also an associate member of McGill's School of Computer Science Dr. Shepherd completed a BSc in Computer Science and Mathematics at the University of Victoria and then studied at the Department of Combinatorics and Optimization, University of Waterloo where he earned his MSc under the supervision of Dan Younger, and Ph.D. under the supervision of Bill Pulleyblank. During his doctoral work he also produced train scheduling software for the meet-pass problem with Pulleyblank for Canadian Pacific Railway. He went on to hold a NATO Postdoctoral Fellowship working with Lex Schrijver in CWI, Amsterdam and a Von Humboldt Fellowship working with Bernhard Korte in Bonn. His first academic appointment in 1992 was joint between Mathematics and Operational Research at the London School of Economics. During that time he also performed consulting in optimization for firms such as British Telecom, Rio-Tinto, and Reuters. He was also co-director of the LSE Centre for Discrete and Applicable Mathematics. In 1997 he joined Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, NJ where he designed algorithms and produced software in areas such as optical network design, real-time network management, scheduling and internet measurement. He also maintained an interest in the fundamental theory behind these problems including his work with Tim Griffin and Gordon Wilfong which formulated a graph theory model to analyze the world's defacto interdomain routing protocol BGP. Dr. Shepherd has been on the editorial boards of the SIAM-MPS Series in Optimization, Math Programming Series B, and Operations Research Letters. He served as co-editor of Mathematical Programming Series A from 2007-2016 and is presently an area editor for Mathematical Programming Computation. He has spent leaves at the Theory Group of Microsoft Research, and Computer Science, University of Washington (2011-12) and the Sauder School of Management, UBC (2014), as well as long-term visits to the Fields Institute, University of Bonn, DIMACS, and University of Tokyo. Contact F. Bruce Shepherd University of British Columbia Professor, Department of Computer Science Sauder School Distinguished Scholar ICICS/CS Building 201-2366 Main Mall Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4 Canada Office: X-Wing 839 fbrucesh@cs.ubc.ca The Department of Mathematics and Statistics at McGill University invites applications for a tenure-track position in Continuous Optimization. The Department welcomes applications at the Assistant Professor level, but more senior applicants will also be considered. The Department is encouraging applicants with expertise in general convex, nonlinear or stochastic optimization who are ideally interested in applying these methods to other domains. Candidates must have a doctoral degree at the date of appointment, and must have demonstrated excellence in mathematical research. They must also have the desire and potential to contribute to the educational programs of the Department at the graduate and undergraduate levels. Applications should be made through MathJobs.Org (Position ID: McGill-CTSOPT) and must include a curriculum vitae, a list of publications, a research outline, a teaching statement which includes an account of teaching experience, and at least four references (with one addressing the teaching record). Candidates are also encouraged to provide web links for up to three selected reprints or preprints, or to upload them to MathJobs.Org. Candidates must ensure that letters of reference are submitted, preferably through MathJobs.Org, although in exceptional circumstances they may be mailed to Chair, Optimization Search Committee Department of Mathematics and Statistics McGill University 805, rue Sherbrooke ouest Montral (Qubec) Canada H3A 0B9 All applications received on or before 12 January 2016 will be considered; subsequent applications will be considered until the position is filled. For further details or clarifications, please email optimization.search2015@math.mcgill.ca. --> window.jQuery || document.write('<script src="assets/js/jquery-1.11.1.min.js"><\/script>') (function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){ (i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o), m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m) })(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga'); ga('create', 'UA-48808360-1', 'stephenmuscat.com'); ga('require', 'displayfeatures'); ga('send', 'pageview'); 
