 Gerald Ratzer To contact me live on line click here: Here is the link to the McGill School of Computer Science www.cs.mcgill.ca Here is the link to the McGill University main page www.mcgill.ca Background Born in England, educated in Scotland at Kelvinside Academy and Glasgow University. First degree in Honours Physics. Started graduate studies at the Maths Lab at Cambridge University, England. This included programming EDSAC 2 in machine language, using paper tape! Awarded an IBM Fellowship and came to McGill University in Montreal, as the first graduate student in Computer Science, in 1964. Founding member of the School of Computer Science at McGill in 1970. Current Activities Research interests include modelling and simulation as used in real time applications, such as air traffic control simulators. Software derived from this research is running in 34 countries. Computer Assisted Learning (CAL) for several different fields ranging from high school to university level courses, both in Canada and overseas. This work is reflected in the course material that has created on the web at the links above and below. Other research work involves assistance to a team of McGill colleagues working on the processing by computer of scripted based calligraphic languages. Recent publication: Public Policy on Carbon Dioxide and Pollution with respect to Climate Change. Consulting assignments include assistance with Software Engineering, Process Engineering and Corporate Planning for companies in the computer and telecommunications fields. One current assignment has included helping a company achieve ISO9001:2000 certification. Another has involved the design and implementation of collaboration software that includes desktop sharing. 20 Questions on the Science of Climate Change Many people are confused by the ongoing discussion on Climate Change and would like to be more knowledgeable on the Science behind the topic. This set of questions is designed to help with understanding the complex aspects of the Science of Climate Change. There is a huge amount of information available on the web and elsewhere and trying to tell fact from fiction is difficult. To be able to participate in the climate discussion you need to understand the underlying Science, at least at a high level. Surf to this page for a set of 20 questions and suggested answers. 20 Questions on the Science of Climate Change The Climate Change Debate - Notes and Links Recent Awards Royal Bank Teaching Innovation Award 1994, 1995, 1997 Faculty of Engineering Course Improvement Award, 1997 Faculty of Science Course Development Award, 1998 National Science and Engineering Research Council and the Conference Board of Canada University-Industry Synergy R&D Partnership Award. Federation d'Informatique du Quebec - OCTAS '96 Award for Innovation - Passport Consortium - McGill U., DREV, ATS Aerospace Inc., CRIM and Laval U. National Research Council - IRAP Award with ATS Aerospace Inc., and Dr. S. Hyder for computer based calligraphy. 1996/97 Canadian Space Agency STEAR 10 SAFIRE Project, with Profs. de Mori, V. Hayward, ATS Aerospace and MPB Technologies, 1996/97 Appointed CEO, Secretary - Treasurer and Director of McGill Systems Inc., the McGill company responsible for commercializing computer software. Recent successes include the sale of Host Explorer micro/mainframe connectivity software to Hummingbird Communications Inc. 1998 to 2001. Appointed Full Professor in 1998. Awarded sabbatical leave 2003/2004. Voted on to the McGill Pension Administration Committee by his peer group. May 2004. Other Interests Policy Issues currently of concern to Prof. Ratzer and under discussion at McGill are: A fair Grading Scheme for McGill, which will encourage excellence and give students the full recognition they deserve. The current McGill grading scheme is non linear, and heavily penalizes a student for one or two poor grades. Co-President and Honorary Secretary of the Oxford-Cambridge Society of Montreal. Any graduate from either university in the Montreal area should please forward their coordinates to Professor Ratzer. Any student interested in applying to either of these universities is also invited to discuss their plans. Professor Gerald Ratzer McGill University Computer Science McConnell Engineering Room 330 3480 University Street Montreal, Quebec Canada H3A 2A7 Tel: (514) 398-7082 Fax: (514) 398-3883 E-Mail: gerald.ratzer@mcgill.ca Here is a link to the OLD Computers in Engineering COMP-208 course web site. Use WebCT for the current version! Here is the link to the McGill School of Computer Science www.cs.mcgill.ca Here is the link to the McGill University main page www.mcgill.ca E-mail: gerald.ratzer@mcgill.ca Office: McConnell Engineering Building , Room 330 Office Phone: (514) 398-7082 Office FAX: (514) 398-3883 Last Modified: 30/5/2004 Copyright McGill University, 2004 
