 CARL TROPPER Department of Computer Science McGill University Montreal, Canada Research Interests I have worked in the area of parallel simulation since its inception and have developed synchronization and load balancing algorithms belonging to both of the major churches of parallel simulation-conservative and optimistic. The use of learning techniques for load balancing has characterized our recent work. Two areas for which we developed appropriate synchronization and load balancing algorithms were verilog simulation and gravitational n-body simulations. Gate level parallel simulation contains a summary of the work we did on parallel Verilog simulation. We developed a parallel environment for gate level simulation which incorporated the algorithms which we developed. Gravitational N-Body simulation is used to study a wide reange of astrophysical models ranging from the dynamics of galaxies and globular clusters containing 10**6 stars to planetary systems with dozens of bodies. We introduced a discrete event approach to solve the equations of motions for the bodies as a replacement for the more expensive (and traditional) time stepping approach for their solution. At present I am interested in the use of parallel simulation in computational neuroscience. We are collaborating with the NEURON (www.neuron.yale.edu) group at Yale in order to add parallel stochastic simulations to their reaction-diffusion simulations. Stochastic simulations provide a finer grain view of the chemical reactions at the basis of the functioning of a neuron. Research projects Gravitational N-Body Simulation Service General chair of PADS 2009 and PADS 1995 Program chair of PADS 1997 Program co-chair of McSWIM 2000 Program commitees: PADS 1990-present, DIS-RT 2000,2009,WSC 2009,2003, SIMUTOOLS 2010,MASCOTS 97 Ediorial board(s) of: Transactions of the Society for Computer Simulation(SCS), Parallel and Distributed Computing Practices Guest editor of special issue of the Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing (JPDC) devoted to applications of distributed simulation (March, 2002) Research Grant Reviewer: Israel Science Foundation(2005), US National Science Foundation(2002-3),NSERC(2009,2010) Guest editor of special issue of Parallel and Distributed Computing Practices (PDCP) devoted to distributed simulation (to appear by December of 2001) Reviewer for IEEE TPDS, IEEE Transactions on Computers, IEEE Transactions on Communications, JPDC, Distributed Computing, ACM Transactions on Modeling and Simulation Courses Parallel Simulation Operating Systems Distributed Algorithms Parallel Programming Other important links Vitae Selected Papers Personal interests Skiing-This is my home mountain- Whiteface Mountain climbing-these days I mostly hike, but I do like rocks. <!-- var date date=document.lastModified document.write("Last modified: "+date) //--> Last modified: 02/18/2019 13:50:58 
