 Home Research Publications People Chip-Gallery Positions PSyLab (Processing Systems Lab) Computational LDOs and Autonomous Gain Tracking The first computationally-controlled Low Dropout Regulator relying on Vdd statistics to auto-tune loop-gain Learn More Minimum Energy (Total) Point Tracking under Performance Constraints Computationally enabled MEP tracking that minimizes total energy dissipation under performance guarantees. Learn More Highly-compact delta-encoded ECoG recording A multiplexed neural-recording front-end that exploits neural-signal statistics to achieve a robust architecture with 10X improvement in neural recording density. Learn More Computationally-locked all-digital PLLs The fastest PVT-robust PLL cold-start and re-lock times for system clocking ever recorded in literature. Learn More UniCAP A unified clock and power regulation architecture for digital SoC domains, virtually eliminating supply noise and temperature-related supply guardbands. Learn More Adaptive machine learning Learning around failures in low-voltage on-chip memories to enable energy-efficient neural network accelerators. Learn More Quasi-resonant clocking The first-ever voltage-scalable, frequency-independent and DVFS-enabled resonant clock architecture. Learn More About PSyLab PsyLab primarily focuses on digital and mixed-signal circuits architectures for information processing with particular emphasis on biomedical electronics and energy-efficient computing. We frequently exploit observations at the system and architecture level to arrive at new, creative solutions to important problems. This common thread is visible across our work on neural (ECoG) recording architectures, computationally locked PLLs, machine-learning acclerators, next-generation clocking architectures, and clock-voltage regulation. Identifying the connections that exist across different domains of Electrical and Computer Engineering have allowed us to demonstrate state-of-the-art solutions in these areas. News Jan 15 2019 Congrats to Fahim on his paper at ISSCC'19! Jan 15 2019 Congrats to Xun on her paper at ISSCC'19! Oct 01 2018 Arindam, Chi-Hsiang and Diego. Welcome to PSyLab! Mar 29 2018 Fahims's UniCaP-SC to be presented at VLSI-Symposium 2018 Feb 03 2018 PSyLab's paper on hardware-algorithm co-design receives Best Paper award at DATE. Dec 01 2017 Fahim's paper on Quasi-Resonant clocking to appear shortly in JSSC. Nov 10 2017 Sung's work on memory-adaptive machine learning accelerators to be presented at DATE'18 Oct 15 2017 Xun's Unified Clock and Power work to be presented at ISSCC 2018 Jul 01 2017 Anthony's ECoG high-density neural recording front end paper at VLSI Symposium 2017. Jul 01 2017 Fahim's computational-locked PLL at VLSI Symposium 2017. More News 
