 Home Research People Publications Tools Seelig lab for synthetic biology We are interested in understanding how biological organisms processinformation using complex biochemical networks and how suchnetworks can be engineered to program cellular behavior. The focus of our research is the identification of systematicdesign rules for the de novo construction of biological control circuits with DNA and RNA components. Our approach integrates the design of molecular circuitry in the test tube and in the cell with the investigation of existing biological pathways. Engineered circuits are being applied toproblems in disease diagnostics and therapy. We're in the Department ofElectrical Engineering and the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering . Lab news 11/18: Splicing paper by Manoj Pillai lab (with Alex and myself as co-authors) just came out! 11/18: Gourab's and Yuan's paper on strand displacement in cells accepted at ACS Synthetic Biology! 11/18: Georg gives a presentation on 5'UTRmodeling at the mRNAHealth Conference in Boston. 10/18: Ban and Nick give talks at ASHG. Nicely done! 8/18: Congratulations Dr. Lopez!! 5/18: Congratulations to Arjun and Sumit for graduating with their PhD! 5/18: Congratulations to Arjun and Sumit for graduating with their PhD! 4/18: Good luck to Paul for his new adventure at Bellwether Bio . Sad to see another great lab member move on! 4/18:Welcome to the lab, Max! 4/18:Predicting the impact ofvariants on APA. Paper by Nick, Johannes and Alex is on bioRxiv ! 4/18:Inferring gene networks from scRNA-seq data. Paper by Sumit and Alberto (with Su-In Lee)accepted at EMBC ! 3/18: The SPLiT-seq paper is out at Science! Make sure to checkout the movie ! 3/18:Congratulations, Dr. Mukherjee!! 2/18: Our paper describing UNCURL, a new approach to scRNA-seq data analysis, was accepted to ISMB. Congrats Sumit and Yue! 2/18:Our paper on SPLiT-seq was accepted at Science. Congrats to Alex, Charlie and the entire team! 2/18:Randolph's paper on DNA diagnostics accepted at Nature Chemistry! 2/18: Sad and excited that Ben got an offer from Amyris and will soon leave us. 2/18: The MISL paper on scaling up DNA data storage is out at Nature Biotechnology ! 12/17: Sunny and Sifang pass their general exams with style. Nicely done! 12/17:Our review paper on DNA nanotechnology now out in MRS bulletin. 11/17: Johannes passes the quals, nice going! 11/17:Welcome to the lab Matt! 11/17: Congrats to Lee, Siena, Yuan-Jyue, Randolph and the entire MISL team! Their paper was accepted to Nature Biotechnology. 10/17: Charlie wins a fellowship from the Interdisciplinary Training Program in Cancer Research. Congratulations! 10/17: Yeast 5'UT R library paper by Anna. Ben, Alex and our friends JoshCuperus, Stan Fields and Nebosja Jojic accepted at Genome Research. Nice work, everyone! 9/17: Sifang, Sunny and Georg all give talks at DNA23 in Austin. Great to see so many of our friends there! 9/17:Our position paper on variant interpretation usingmassively parallel reporter assays is out in AJHG! 7/17: Gourab'spaper is now online at Nature Nano: A spatially localized architecture for fast and modular DNAcomputing. See also News & Views by Esteves-Torres and Rondelez. 6/17:NSF is funding our work on DNA diagnostics. Nice work Randolph! 6/17: Congratulations, Dr. Chatterjee!! 6/17:Gourab's paper on localized DNA circuits wasaccepted at Nature Nanotechnology (also on bioRxiv ).Congratulations Gourab! 5/17: Sumit and Yue's paper on learning from scRNA-seq data is out on bioRxiv 5/17: Congratulations to Charlie for passing his quals!Awesome research proposal! 5/17: Congratulations to Sifang, Sunny and Sherry for getting their papersaccepted at DNA23 ! 5/17: Yeast 5'UT R library paper by Anna. Ben, Alex and our friends JoshCuperus, Stan Fields and Nebosja Jojic is is now on bioRxiv 5/17 Georg visited ETH in Zurich and Max Planck Institute for Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics in Dresden 4/17: Our lab was awarded an R01 from NHGRI (with Jay Shendure)! 4/17: Labalumnus Richard Muscatruns Zurich Marathon in 3:17 3/17: Charlie wins a Translational Research Training Program graduate fellowship. Congratulations! 3/17: Georg gives atalk on localized DNA circuits and DNA diagnostics at the 1st European Congress on Cell-Free Synthetic Biology 2/17: Georg gives talks on SPLiT-seq and splicing at the Friedrich Miescher Institute and the ETH DBSSE in Basel 1/17: Gourab presents his work on DNA circuits at the RNA Nanotechnology Gordon Research Conference Proudly powered by Weebly Home Research People Publications Tools 
