 LL4MA Lab Sidebar Home Publications People Projects Software Data Outreach Teaching Reading Group Wiki (private) Utah Learning Lab for Manipulation Autonomy Welcome to the Utah Learning Lab for Manipulation Autonomythe LL4MA Labdirected by professor Tucker Hermans . We are affiliated with the University of Utah Robotics Center , the School of Computing , and the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Utah . Our research focuses on autonomous learning, planning, and perception for robot manipulation. We are particularly interested in enabling robots to autonomously discover and manipulate objects with which they have no previous knowledge or experience. For more information about specific research efforts check out our projects and publications . If you are a student interested in working with us, please read this prior to contacting Prof. Hermans. News January 25, 2019: Papers accepted to ICRA 2019 : Robust Learning of Tactile Force Estimation through Robot Interaction , B. Sundaralingam , A. Lambert, A. Handa, B. Boots, T. Hermans , S. Brichfield, N. Ratliff and D. Fox. "Modeling Grasp Type Improves Learning-Based Grasp Planning" . Qingkai Lu and Tucker Hermans . January 7, 2019: Tucker appeared on Radioactive on KRCL to discuss Robotics, AI, and mindfulness January 3, 2019: Paper accepted to RA-L "Modeling Grasp Type Improves Learning-Based Grasp Planning" . Qingkai Lu and Tucker Hermans. PDF December 17, 2018: Tucker gave a talk at NVIDIA Research, Seattle entitled Improving Multi-fingered Robot Manipulation by Unifying Learning and Planning June 29, 2018: Paper accepted to IROS 2018 Dynamics Model Learning and Manipulation Planning for Objects in Hospitals using a Patient Assistant Mobile (PAM) Robot. Roya Sabbagh Novin, Amir Yazdani, Tucker Hermans, and Andrew Merryweather. PDF May 22, 2018: Paper accepted to Autonomous Robots Relaxed-Rigidity Constraints: Kinematic Trajectory Optimization and Collision Avoidance for In-Grasp Manipulation; Balakumar Sundaralingam and Tucker Hermans. PDF ; Publisher's Site . May, 2018: Matthew Wilson received a UROP scholarship to work on his project Learning Tactile Feedback Policies with Guided Policy Search for Robotic Manipulation. April 23, 2018: Paper accepted to IEEE Transactions on Haptics Grip Stabilization of Novel Objects using Slip Prediction.; Filipe Veiga, Jan Peters, and Tucker Hermans. PDF ; Publisher's page . April 10, 2018: Tucker presented a talk following a screening of AlphaGo at the Salt Lake City Public library. Details available at the Natural History Museum of Utah website . January 11, 2018: Paper accepted to ICRA 2018 Geometric In-Hand Regrasp Planning: Alternating Optimization of Finger Gaits and In-Grasp Manipulation. Balakumar Sundaralingam, and Tucker Hermans. PDF October 27, 2017: Tucker gave a talk at the University of Washington Robotics Colloquium entitled Learning and Planning for Autonomous Multi-fingered Robot Manipulation September 24, 2017: Tucker gave a talk at the IROS 2017 Workshop on Development of Benchmarking Protocols for Robotic Manipulation on Benchmarking for Within-Hand Manipulation September 4, 2017: Paper accepted to International Symposium on Robotics Research (ISRR) 2017 Planning Multi-Fingered Grasps as Probabilistic Inference in a Learned Deep Network; Qingkai Lu, Kautilya Chenna, Balakumar Sundaralingam, and Tucker Hermans; PDF . June 1, 2017: Katie Popek's ICRA Paper won the Best Medical Robotics Paper Award! April 2017: Paper accepted to RSS 2017 : "Relaxed-Rigidity Constraints: In-Grasp Manipulation using Purely Kinematic Trajectory Optimization" ; Balakumar Sundaralingam and Tucker Hermans. [Project page] April 2017: Katie Popek's ICRA 2017 paper is a finalist for Best Medical Robotics Paper! February 2017: Proposal Awarded: CRII: RI: Enabling Manipulation of Object Collections via Self-Supervised Robot Learning , Tucker Hermans (PI) January 2017: Paper accepted to ICRA 2017 : "First Demonstration of Simultaneous Localization and Propulsion of a Magnetic Capsule in a Lumen using a Single Rotating Magnet." Katie M. Popek , Tucker Hermans, and Jake J. Abbott July 2016: Paper accepted to IROS 2016 : "Active Tactile Object Exploration with Gaussian Processes." Zhengkun Yi, Roberto Calandra, Herke van Hoof, Filipe Veiga, Tucker Hermans, Yilei Zhang, and Jan Peters. November 2015: Papers Presented at Humanoids 2015 in Seoul, Korea: "Learning Robot In-Hand Manipulation with Tactile Features," Herke van Hoof, Tucker Hermans, Gerhard Neumann, and Jan Peters [Video] "Evaluation of Tactile Feature Extraction for Interactive Object Recognition," Janine Hlscher, Jan Peters, and Tucker Hermans Log In 
