 Contact Resume Research Teaching Students Software Animation Music Assistant Professor, School of Computing , University of Utah Email: cem@cemyuksel.com (please see the best way to contact me first) Office: MEB 3116, Merrill Engineering Building , 3 rd floor. Address: School of Computing, 50 S. Central Campus Drive University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT 84112-9205 FAQ How do you pronounce your name? Jem Youksell Short Bio I am an assistant professor in the School of Computing at the University of Utah and the founder of Cyber Radiance LLC , a computer graphics software company. Previously, I was a postdoctoral fellow at Cornell University , under the guidance of Doug James , after receiving my PhD degree in Computer Science from Texas A&M University , advised by John Keyser and Donald House . My research interests are in computer graphics and related fields, including physically-based simulations, realistic image synthesis, rendering techniques, global illumination, sampling, GPU algorithms, graphics hardware, modeling complex geometries, knitted structures, and hair modeling, animation, and rendering. Current Courses Fall 2018 - CS 6967 - Communication Design for Computer Scientists Fall 2018 - CS 7933 - Graphics Seminar Highlights Mesh Color Textures Mesh Color Textures bring the advantages of Mesh Colors to real-time rendering. Mesh Colors revolutionize texture mapping by completely eliminating its fundamental problems, such as the need for defining a mapping. Mesh Color Textures allow using hardware texture filtering for Mesh Colors , thereby achieving the performance of standard 2D textures! Stitch Meshes Stitch Meshes provide a new way of representing and modeling knited garments with yarn-level detail. We used Stitch Meshes for modeling full sizte knitted garments as well as various knitting patterns. This work will be presented as a technical paper at SIGGRAPH 2012. Hair Meshes Hair Meshes provide a new and very effective way of modeling hair that resebles polygonal modeling, which is presented as a technical paper at SIGGRAPH Asia 2009. This technique is used in the modeling system of Hair Farm , the ultimate hair plugin for 3ds Max. Dual Scattering Approximation Dual Scattering is an extremely fast approximation of multiple scattering simulation in hair, which is presented as a techinical paper at SIGGRAPH 2008. Its extreme simplicity even permits real-time implementation on the GPU. Deep Opacity Maps This is a new method for computing shadows from semi-transparent objects like hair, which will be presented a techinical paper at Eurographics 2008. Extending the concept of opacity shadow maps, Deep Opacity Maps method significantly improves the quality and speed of shadow computation. Wave Particles This is a new method for the real-time simulation of water waves and their interactions with floating objects presented a techinical paper at SIGGRAPH 2007. It is extremely fast and ready to be used in new generation video games and special effects for movies. Open Source Code Base cyCodeBase is my open source code base intended for graphics programmers. It includes C++ libraries for basic graphics classes, and solutions to frequent graphics programming problems. More... loading
