 SCI Home The Institute Back News Events Calendar Research Cores Research Highlights Collaborators Friends of SCI Support the Institute Contact the Institute SCI X Computing Facility Recharge Newsletter Past Workshops/Symposia Research Back Scientific Computing Visualization Biomedical Computing Image Analysis Centers Back CIBC SDAV MRL AlterLab CEDMAV C-SAFE SAGE DOE/NETL Open WFM CDE3M MLM BIDAC CCMSC I4DAV VDL NERG Intel Media Publications Back SCI Publications SCI Authored Books Software Back Problem Solving Environments Back FEBio PreView PostView SCIRun Back BioMesh3D Forward/Inverse Toolkit BrainStimulator Nektar++ PIDX Uintah Image Analysis Back AtlasWerks Deformetrica Seg3D FluoRender ImageVis3D Slicer FiberViewer STCR Teem Vispack CHM Afront NCR Toolset Geometric and Shape Modeling Back Cleaver BioMesh3D Deformetrica ShapeWorks ExoshapeAccel Simulation Back FluoRender GPUTUM SCIRun FEBio Uintah Pfeifer Visualization Back ViSUS map3d MizBee Pathline MulteeSum inSite HDVis EpiCanvas VisTrails ElVis Pathfinder Vials UpSet Caleydo StratomeX Entourage & enRoute LineUp Domino Datasets Back SCI Head Model People Back SCI People A-Z Directory Alumni Collaborators Opportunities Back Opportunities at SCI Data Engineering Certificate High School Summer Internships Internal Search Dr. Shireen Y. Elhabian - Research Assistant Professor WEB 2815 phone (801) 587-3206 fax (801) 585-6513 shireen@sci.utah.edu Personal Home Page Background Dr. Elhabian received her BSc. and MSc. from Faculty of Computers and Information, Cairo University (FCI-CU), Egypt, in 2002 and 2005, respectively. She received her PhD in Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) from University of Louisville (UofL), USA, in Fall 2012. Since Fall 2002, she has joined FCI-CU as a teaching assistant. Since then she has earned professional as well as academic experience with a number of peer reviewed publications. From 2007-2012, she was a graduate research assistant at Computer Vision and Image Processing (CVIP) Lab at UofL. During this time, she was involved in different research projects including (1) pulmonary nodule detection and classification for the early diagnosis of lung cancer, (2) volumetric representation of the corpus callosum for early detection of autism, (3) image-based approach for the reconstruction of plausible human jaw in-vivo for the treatment of malocclusion problems, (4) automated framework for 3D colon segmentation for accurate polyp detection and (5) illumination invariant statistical facial shape recovery for 3D face recognition. Dr. Elhabian also conducted teaching and mentoring undergraduate as well as graduate students in topics related to computer vision, image processing, signal processing and pattern recognition in FCI-CU and CVIP-UofL. Dr. Elhabian has extensive programming experience in many languages and methodologies. Dr. Elhabian was awarded the best teaching assistant in Cairo University in 2005 and the outstanding ECE graduate student award at the University of Louisville in 2009. Recently, she has been selected, from a worldwide search to be among 30 of the best PhD candidates to participate in Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) Doctoral Consortium in 2012. Further, her PhD thesis received the UofL Graduate Dean's Citation award. In 2013, Dr. Elhabian joined the Scientific Computing and Imaging Institute, University of Utah, as a post-doctoral research fellow then associate. She worked on the development of efficient algorithms for seismic horizons tracking and the representation of geological areas. She was involved in the development and validation of statistical shape model for different medical applications. She also performed image analysis and processing of diffusion MRI data as a part of neuro-developmental studies. Current Responsibilities Dr. Elhabian current research and development is focused on: Developing and validating of statistical shape models for different medical applications, including orthopedics and cardiology, for objectively studying the three-dimensional relationships between form and function of anatomical structures as a part of studying diseases Dense surface reconstruction from sparse point-based correspondence models Investigating potential approaches for constructing 4D shape models from thick-slices cine MRI acquisition Novel generative shape models for nonlinear shape spaces Shape-driven image segmentation Image analysis and processing of diffusion MRI data Non-rigid registration and longitudinal analysis of diffusion MRI Research Interests Advances in visual data acquisition devices and computer hardware in recent years have generated large amounts of visual data, adding various exciting research areas related to understanding and leveraging these visual data. Dr. Elhabian research interests have been centered around medical imaging, computer vision, image understanding and pattern recognition. Her primary focus is on statistical shape analysis, subspace learning, generative image and shape modeling, geometric and photometric object representation. She is also fascinated with the implications of advances in these fields to society and industry. Scientific Computing and Imaging Institute 72 S Central Campus Drive, Room 3750 Salt Lake City, UT 84112 Phone: 801-585-1867 Fax: 801-585-6513 Login | Admin Copyright 1998 - 2018 Scientific Computing and Imaging Institute SCI 
