 Search Campus MENU Home Teaching Research Service Contact Information Find A Researcher Login Neal Patwari The University of Utah University of Utah Profiles Find A Researcher Login Adjunct Professor , Elect & Computer Engineering Curriculum Vitae - opens new window Biosketch - opens new window Email npatwari@ece.utah.edu Phone 801-581-5917 Main Website http://span.ece.utah.edu/neal-patwari - opens new window More Contact Information Contact Information Main Office Joseph Merrill Engineering Bld, 0064 Room: 3102 Phone: 801-581-5917 Copy Mailing Address Neal Patwari The University of Utah 50 S. Central Campus Dr. Rm 3280 Joseph Merrill Engineering Bld Salt Lake City, UT 84112 Copy Neal Patwari Adjunct Professor , Elect & Computer Engineering Home Teaching Research Service Education Research Summary Biography Current Courses Entrepreneurial Experience Courses I Teach Publications Research Statement Research Keywords Presentations Research Groups Grants, Contracts & Research Gifts Professional Service Honors & Awards Internal Service In the Media Skip Menu Home Teaching Research Service Education Research Summary Biography Current Courses Entrepreneurial Experience Courses I Teach Publications Research Statement Research Keywords Presentations Research Groups Grants, Contracts & Research Gifts Professional Service Honors & Awards Internal Service In the Media Education Ph.D., Electrical Engineering, University of Michigan M.S., Electrical Engineering, Virginia Tech B.S., Electrical Engineering, Virginia Tech Research Summary Wireless networking technologies which improve security, reliability, self-awareness, and sensing capabilities. Particular expertise in radio localization, locating people in buildings using RF sensors, and vital sign monitoring using RF sensors. General expertise in monitoring health and activity using wireless networks. Biography Neal Patwari received the B.S. (1997) and M.S. (1999) degrees from Virginia Tech, and the Ph.D. from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor (2005), all in Electrical Engineering. He was a research engineer in Motorola Labs, Florida, between 1999 and 2001. Since 2006, he has been at the University of Utah, where he is an Associate Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with an adjunct appointment in the School of Computing and Department of Bioengineering. He directs the Sensing and Processing Across Networks (SPAN) Lab, which performs research at the intersection of statistical signal processing and wireless networking. Neal is also the Director of Research at Xandem Technology, which develops security and home automation products based on radio sensing technologies spun out of the SPAN lab. Neal received the NSF CAREER Award in 2008, the 2009 IEEE Signal Processing Society Best Magazine Paper Award, and the 2011 University of Utah Early Career Teaching Award. His is a co-author on two papers with Best Paper Awards, at IEEE SenseApp 2012 and IPSN 2014. He has served on technical program committees for ACM and IEEE conferences Mobicom, IPSN, SECON, EWSN, ICDCS, DCOSS, ICC, RTAS, CNS, ICCCN, and MILCOM. QUICK LINKS Support UFIS Homepage U of U A-Z Index Directory Map About the U The Fine Print Nondiscrimination & Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy CIS U-Mail facebook twitter youtube instagram 201 Presidents Circle Room 201 SLC UT 84112 801.581.7200 2017 The University of Utah 
