 Dr Paula Buttery Contact Details Fellow and College Lecturer Gonville and Caius College Trinity Street, Cambridge CB2 1TA, UK Reader in Computing and Language Computer Laboratory William Gates Building JJ Thomson Ave, Cambridge CB3 0DS, UK Associated Researcher Theoretical & Applied Linguistics Faculty of English Building 9 West Road, Cambridge CB3 9DP, UK paula.buttery at cl.cam.ac.uk Research Interests I am a computational linguist with research interests in both computer applications (Natural Language Processing) and language cognition (Computational Psycho-linguistics). My research focuses on building Natural Language Processing tools that work with non-canonical forms of natural language (spoken language, learners, aphasics, social media language) and also with low resource languages (endangered languages, dialects). I am interested in both the automatic machine processing of non-canonical language and the cognitive processes underlying that language. Understanding the cognitive aspects of language processing is essential if we are to build language tools that can be intuitive to users. I am the Director of the Cambridge Institute for Automated Language Teaching and Assessment (ALTA) . My work within ALTA focuses on the spoken language of learners of English. I am also funded to work on under-resourced endangered languages as part of the Cambridge Africa programme which partners Cambridge researchers with colleagues in Uganda and Ghana. Other research interests include the computational modelling of first and second language acquisition and language evolution. My curriculum vitae [pdf] (always needs updating...) Industry Links I am part of iLexIR : a software consultancy that provides natural language processing solutions---specializing in text analytics, mining, classification and search applications. Information for Prospective Students Students interested in working within my fields of research may want to apply to the MPhil in Advanced Computer Science 2005 Paula Buttery 
