 Skip to content | Access key help Search Advanced search AZ Contact us Computer Laboratory D J Greaves: University of Cambridge, Computer Laboratory. Dr. D J Greaves. Contact details: D J Greaves, MA, PhD, MIET . Short (auto-)biography: Sep 07 Further photos: A , B , C , D . David is a Senior Lecturer in Computing Science at the Computer Laboratory and a Fellow of Corpus Christi College . Consult Google regarding: Relevant research groups: Systems Research Group , Computer Architecture Group , Programming Research Group , David Greaves, PhD, MIET, is a University Senior Lecturer interested in compiler and hardware design. He has considerable industrial experience at the CTO/Chief Scientist level and has led the design of many hardware systems, including semi-custom VLSI design. Lecture Notes: System On Chip Design and Modelling (PDF) . Major Achievments From Past Decades: Please click: PROTO MEMOIRS . Current Activities: Project spEEDO : Developing a power debug and monitoring API for virtual platforms and real silicon. A continuation of Power estimation from TLM and very-high-level models of computation (VHLS/Prazor). TLM Power 3 Draft User Manual and Download . AMIQ FDL Report. . Algorithm Specification Language: Can a high-level programming expression of an algorithm be seamlessly annotated with implementation aspects concerning hardware structure (e.g. number of RAMs, ALU to operation mapping and level of parallelism) for SMP, FPGA/ASIC and GPU targets? TNDJG:008: Transactional Design Expression (Bluespec/SAFL/TLM) Using Chisel HDL/HCL . Kiwi: Scientific Acceleration on FPGA (using C# and dotnet DSLs): LINK . FPL Talk (Sept 2014) . Comp-Arch Talk (May 2011) . HLS Touchstones . Profiles for compositional formal checking: can metadata for system components be digitally signed according to the class of automated checker and checking overhead required when a system is assembled? Quote of the day: 'Although there is no accepted taxonomy of high versus low-level languages for hardware design, we can roughly relate a gate-level net list to machine code, RTL to assembly language, hardware construction languages such as Chisel and Lava as low-level languages and anything that makes automatic assignment of work to clock cycles as high-level languages.' --- DJ Greaves. Future Activities: Behavioural Machine-Readable Datasheets: CARDs proposal . A new System-Level Description Language (SLDL) for EDA, including the best parts of the H2 temporary language. Draft items, yet to be published: LINK . Activities: Older Research Areas Conference Program Committees Recent Publications Unpublished Drafts Minor Research Notes Phd Students Undergraduate Teaching Miscellaneous Projects System Design Methodology External Affiliations DJG is a subject editor of IET Electronics Letters . DJG is external examiner at Imperial College, Dept of Electrical and Electronic Engineering . 2018 Computer Laboratory, University of Cambridge Information provided by Dr. D J Greaves 
