 Home Research Publications Invited talks Software Teaching Affective Computing Lab Professional activities The FABO database Community related DR. HATICE GUNES Associate Professor (University Senior Lecturer) Department of Computer Science and Technology , University of Cambridge William Gates Building, 15 JJ Thomson Avenue, Cambridge, CB3 0FD, UK E-mail: Hatice.Gunes(@)cl.cam.ac.uk Visiting Academic , School of EECS , Queen Mary University of London Research Interests: Artificial Emotional Intelligence, Affective Computing, Human-like Computing, Personality Computing, Social Signal Processing, Human Behaviour Understanding, Social Robotics, Human-Robot Interaction, Intelligent User Interfaces, Human Sensing in Virtual Reality, Assistive Technologies. Short Bio I am a University Senior Lecturer (Associate Professor) at University of Cambridge 's Department of Computer Science and Technology . Prior to that I was a Senior Lecturer / Lecturer in the School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science at Queen Mary University of London (QMUL), a postdoctoral researcher at Imperial College London , and an honorary associate of University of Technology, Sydney (UTS) . My research interests are in the areas of affective computing and social signal processing that lie at the crossroad of multiple disciplines including, computer vision, signal processing, machine learning, multimodal interaction and human-robot interaction. I have authored numerous papers in these areas ( ~ 3500 citations, H-index=26). My recent work has focussed on Digital Personhood through the EPSRC Being There Project (2013-2017) that aimed to produce greater social integration of robots in public spaces, and to increase access to public spaces in robot proxy forms. I Guest Edited the Frontiers in Robotics and AIs Research Topic on Affective and Social Signals for HRI. I have been invited to serve as an Associate Editor for a number of robotics conferences including IEEE RO-MAN 2016-2018 and ACM/IEEE HRI 2017-2018 . I am the President (Oct 2017-Oct 2019) of the Association for the Advancement of Affective Computing (AAAC) and the Chair of the Steering Board of IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing . I am also an Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing , IEEE Transactions on Multimedia , and Image and Vision Computing , and Guest Editor of Special Issues in International Journal of Synthetic Emotions , Image and Vision Computing , and ACM Transactions on Interactive Intelligent Systems. I have acted as an organiser and PC member for numerous workshops and conferences in my areas of research and expertise. I am the General Co-Chair of ACII 2019 and was the Program Co-Chair of IEEE FG 2017 . I am also a member of the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council UK's EPSRC Peer Review Associate College . In June 2017 I was a Visiting Associate Professor in the Department of Information Technology at Uppsala University, Sweden that granted me funding as part of their Visiting Female Researcher Scheme for Gender Equality. In the period of May 2015 June 2015 I was an invited Visiting Associate Professor at the Institut des Systmes Intelligents et de Robotique (ISIR), UPMC Sorbonne Universities (l'Universit Pierre et Marie Curie) in Paris, France supported by the French state funds through the Labex SMART Project. From 2004 to 2007, I was a recipient of the Australian Government International Postgraduate Research Scholarship ( IPRS ) awarded to top quality international postgraduate students, and the UTS Faculty of IT Research Training Stipend awarded to outstanding PhD candidates at UTS. I have also received a number of other awards for Outstanding Paper (with M.A. Nicolaou and M. Pantic @ IEEE FG 2011 ), Quality Reviewer (IEEE ICME 2011), Best Demo (with the Semaine team @ IEEE ACII 2009), and Best Student Paper (with M. Piccardi @ VisHCI 2006). I have been involved as PI and Co-I in several projects funded by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council UK (EPSRC), the British Council and the InnovateUK. I am passionate about science communication and public engagement . I have been interviewed by the BBC Radio Cambridgeshire and the BBC World Service for both radio and TV ('Click' radio and TV programme). I demonstrated my research LIVE at the Cambridge Science Festival (2017), Bristol Watershed (2016), @Bristol Science Center (2016), and the Wellcome Collection (2016). In 2018, I was one of the Cambridge's Hay 20 for The Hay Culture and Literary Festival talking about Demystifying the Human-like Robot. I also talked about Creating Technology with Socio-emotional Intelligence at the Cambridge Pint of Science Festival 2018. Latest News Aug 2018 - I have been appointed a Fellow of the Alan Turing Institute . Looking forward to spending some time there interacting with various interest groups from April 2019! Jul 2018 - Our paper titled Detecting Deception and Suspicion in Dyadic Game Interactions has been accepted to be presented at ACM ICMI 2018 - the ACM Int'l Conf. on Multimodal Interaction. Jul 2018 - We have now made the Multimodal Human-Human-Robot Interactions (MHHRI) Dataset available to the research community. The dataset can be accessed here and the 2017 IEEE Trans. Affective Computing paper can be found here . Jul 2018 - I am the General Co-Chair of the 8th Int'l Conference in Affective Computing and Intelligent Interaction - ACII 2019 . We will be hosting it in Cambridge in Sep 3-6, 2019. Please check the website on how to participate / more info! Jul 2018 - I gave the Horizon Lecture on Human-like Robots for the Cambridge Construction Engineering Masters Programme . June 2018 - I have been invited to become a member of the EPSRC Peer Review Associate College . June 2018 - I was a speaker at the Cambridge in the City event taking place at the London Guildhall, talking about new technology and its implications for the future of finance and society . June 2018 - I gave an invited talk at the Hay Festival 2018 titled Demistifying The Social Robot . May 2018 - I gave an invited talk at the Cambridge Pint of Science Festival titled Creating Technology with Socio-emotional Intelligence . May 2018 - See the article Evolving with the robots about my invited talk at the Cambridge Series at the Hay Festival 2018 . May 2018 - Our book chapter titled Computational Analysis of Affect, Personality and Engagement for Human-Robot Interactions is now available online as part of the Elsevier's Computer Vision for Assistive Healthcare Book. Apr 2018 - I gave a series of invited talks at the University of Hong Kong (HKU) , Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, on (1) Automatic Recognition of Affect from Face, (2) Interaction Design and (3) Disruptive Technologies for Wellbeing. Feb 2018 - I gave an invited talk at Royal College of Art on Creating Technology with Socio-emotional Intelligence. Feb 2018 - Our research has been featured in issue 35 of the Cambridge University magazine Research Horizons . Oct 2017 - I gave an invited talk titled Towards Disruptive Technologies for Wellbeing: Explorations in Affective VR, Telepresence Robotics and Social Transference at MIT Media Lab . Oct 2017 - Our paper titled Effects of Valence and Arousal on Working Memory Performance in Virtual Reality Gaming has been presented at ACII 2017 -Int'l Conf. on Affective Computing and Intelligent Interaction. Oct 2017 - Our paper titled Computational Analysis of Valence and Arousal in Virtual Reality Gaming using Lower Arm Electromyograms has been presented at ACII 2017 -Int'l Conf. on Affective Computing and Intelligent Interaction. Sep 2017 - I gave an invited talk titled Human Behaviour Analysis for Social Robotics at the BMVC'17 Workshop on Automatic Face Analytics for Human Behavior Understanding. Aug 2017 - Our paper titled Comparing Social Science and Computer Science Workflow Processes for Studying Group Interactions is now available online in International Journal of Small Group Research . Aug 2017 - Our paper titled Multimodal Human-Human-Robot Interactions (MHHRI) Dataset for Studying Personality and Engagement has been accepted by IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing . Aug 2017 - Together with Ginevra Castellano and Bilge Mutlu, we are hosting a Research Topic on Affective and Social Signals for HRI in the Frontiers in Robotics and AI . Accepted papers are now online ! 2018 Hatice Gunes Design downloaded from free website templates . 
