 Skip to content | Access key help Search Advanced search AZ Contact us Computer Laboratory Computer Laboratory Alice Hutchings Alice Hutchings Publications Cambridge Computer Crime Database Alice Hutchings **********NEWS********** I am Co-Chair of the Program Committee for the first Workshop on Attackers and Cyber-Crime Operations (WACCO 2019) . The workshop will be held jointly with the 2019 IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy in Stockholm, Sweden, on the 20th of June 2019. The workshop welcomes mono-disciplinary and multi-disciplinary submissions on quantitative and qualitative analyses of cyber-crime activities. In scope are contributions focussing on the technical, criminological, psychological, economic, and legal dimensions of cybercrime. The full CfP is on the website http://wacco-workshop.eu and submissions will be open until 25 February 2019. I am co-author on the paper Characterizing Eve: Analysing cybercrime actors in a large underground forum , which was presented at the 21st International Symposium on Research in Attacks, Intrusions and Defenses (RAID) in September 2018. This paper follows a collaboration funded by the Alan Turing Institute. I have recently published two papers on airline ticketing fraud. The first, Leaving on a Jet Plane: The trade in fraudulently obtained airline tickets was published in Crime, Law and Social Change , while Flying in cyberspace: Policing global travel fraud was published in Policing: A Journal of Policy and Practice . **************************** I am a University Lecturer in the Security Group at the Computer Laboratory, University of Cambridge. I am also part of the Cambridge Cybercrime Centre , an interdisciplinary initiative combining expertise from computer science, criminology, and law. We take a data-driven approach to improve our understanding of criminal activity and develop robust identifiers and evidence of criminal behaviour. An important goal of the project is to provide data to other academics and therefore improve the quantity and quality of cybercrime research. With Richard Clayton , I established the Cambridge Cybercrime Conference, which will run for the fourth time on Thursday 11 July 2019. Prior to taking up a lecturership I was a researcher at the Computer Laboratory from January 2014 to October 2018, and a College Research Associate at St John's College, Cambridge, from 2017 to 2018. Before moving to Cambridge I was a Senior Research Analyst at the Australian Institute of Criminology from 2011 to 2013. Before entering academia I had a varied research career in local government, parliament, law, and private investigation (intellectual property). I first began researching cybercrime in the late 1990s, while working in industry (mainly relating to domain name misuse and software counterfeiting). The thesis of my PhD, conferred in 2013, examined why computer crime offenders, namely those engaged in unauthorised access and computer fraud, begin offending, why they continue, and why they stop. My research used a framework of multiple theories of crime, which were integrated to create one theoretical model based on data from current and former offenders. I've made a list to highlight some academic researchers who do excellent cybercrime research but who I think are under-appreciated. This is not a list of women, it's a list that only has women on it. Just like some citation lists, editor lists, program committee membership lists, and conference agendas are not lists of (but only include) men. Research interests I am an interdisciplinary researcher. Specialising in cybercrime, I bridge the gap between criminology and computer science. Generally, my research interests include understanding cybercrime offenders, cybercrime events, and the prevention and disruption of online crime. Specific topics I am particularly interested in include: Applying natural language processing and data science approaches to better understand underground forums. The paper Characterizing Eve: Analysing cybercrime actors in a large underground forum , is the result of a collaboration funded by the Alan Turing Institute. For this project we also compared aggressive language on an online hacking forum with Wikipedia page edits. Airline ticketing fraud, with prior papers scripting the crime commission process ( Leaving on a Jet Plane: The trade in fraudulently obtained airline tickets ) and exploring the blackmarket and policing aspects ( Flying in cyberspace: Policing global travel fraud ). Research ethics, which are explored in the papers Ethical issues in research using datasets of illicit origin and Interviewing cybercrime offenders . Stolen data markets, including how actors interact and the actions they perform , how actors trust in inherently untrustworthy situations , disruption and intervention opportunities , and target selection and knowledge transmission . Understanding the gendered dimensions of cybercrime , including the barriers women face when engaging with the predominantly masculine online communities that are important for learning and sharing information. Offender pathways into (and out of) cybercrime. This was the topic of my PhD thesis, and a brief overview of my integrated theory of initiation, maintenance, and desistance has been published as a book chapter . This theoretical framework has since been applied to explore how offenders begin providing denial of service attacks for a fee (commonly known as 'booter services') . I established and maintain the Cambridge Computer Crime Database (CCCD) , a database of computer crime events where the offender has been arrested, charged and/or prosecuted in the United Kingdom. Please get in touch with me if you have data for inclusion in the CCCD, or if you are an academic considering setting up a similar database in another country. Cybercrime is an international issue, and this should be reflected in the data. I'm happy to assist setting up the relevant data collection mechanisms, and to ensure similar variables are being captured for comparative purposes. Research students If you are interested in applying to Cambridge for a research-oriented MPhil or PhD in cybercrime or a related area please get in touch regarding your research topic of interest. More information on the two programmes, including application requirements and information on initial research proposals, can be found on the MPhil in Advanced Computer Science and PhD in Computer Science pages at the Computer Laboratory. Teaching During the 2018-2019 academic year I am teaching the masters-level course R254 - Cybercrime . If you are interested in a 2018-2019 undergraduate or masters project, please contact me by email. Committees I am a member of the steering committee for the Centre for the Study of Global Human Movement and a member of the Working Group on Handling Security-Sensitive Research Material. In 2015, I was elected to serve on the University Council, the principal executive and policy making body of the University of Cambridge. In this capacity I served on a number of other committees and working groups, including the Governance Review Working Group, the University Council's Business Committee, the Risk Steering Committee, and the Sports Committee. I was also co-opted as a member of the Council of the School of Technology. In October 2018, I resigned from the University Council. While a member of the University's research staff (2014-2018), I was an elected committee member of the Postdocs of Cambridge (PdOC) Society and a member of the Computer Laboratory's Research Staff Forum. Email alice.hutchings [at] cl.cam.ac.uk Phone +44 (0) 1223 763660 Office GE22 Mail Dr Alice Hutchings Computer Laboratory 15 JJ Thomson Avenue Cambridge CB3 0FD United Kingdom 2019 Computer Laboratory, University of Cambridge Information provided by Alice Hutchings 
