 Rafa Mantiuk * Main Research Projects The team Teaching Laboratory Software Publications Jobs & PhD opportunities HDR images Rafa Mantiuk Reader in Graphics and Displays Department of Computer Science and Technology The Computer Laboratory Rainbow Research Group University of Cambridge Office address University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory William Gates Building 15 JJ Thomson Avenue Cambridge CB3 0FD United Kingdom Room SS22 Phone office: +44 1223 763831 E-mail rafal [dot] mantiuk [at] cl [dot] cam [dot] ac [dot] uk Important: if you have never sent or received e-mail from me, please include the text " n0t5pam " somewhere in the subject line, for example "[n0t5pam] Your subject". This is to avoid the SPAM filter. If you are contacting me about internship, PhD studentship, or a PostDoc position, please check the "Jobs" section first. Tweets by @hdrsci Reserach interest Applied visual perception; high dynamic range imaging; display algorithms; tone-mapping; video coding for new display technologies; image and video quality metric; visibility metrics; virtual reality and low-level perception; computational photography; computational displays; novel display technologies; colour; perception in computer graphics; novel image and video representations (beyond 2D); psychophysics; modeling visual perception with machine learning. Biography Senior Lecturer, University of Cambridge, Computer Laboratory, UK (from 2015) Lecturer / Senior Lecturer, Bangor University, School of Computer Science , UK (2009-2015) Postdoc Fellow, University of British Columbia , Canada (2008-2009) Postdoc, Max-Planck-Institut for Computer Science , Germany (2007-2008) Internship, Sharp Laboratories of America , Camas WA, USA (2006) PhD (summa cum laude, Computer Science), Max-Planck-Institut for Computer Science , Germany (2006) Msc (Computer Science), Technical University of Szczecin, Poland (2003) Google Scholar LinkedIn profile Mendeley profile Recent projects Temporal Resolution Multiplexing: Exploiting the limitations of spatio-temporal vision for more efficient VR rendering Every second frame of a high-frame animation is rendered at a lower resolution, reducing the number of rendered and transmitted pixels by about 40%. The high quality animation is reconstructed by exploiting the limitations of human spatio-temporal vision. Dataset and metrics for predicting local visible differences Visibility of artifacts is marked by a number of observers to create a dataset of local differences. The dataset is then used to retrain existing visibility metrics, such as HDR-VDP-2, and to train a new CNN-based metric. Psychometric scaling of TID2013 dataset The largest image quality dataset, TID2013, is rescaled to improve the quality scores. Better quality estimates are obtained using a more rigorous observer model (Thurstone's Case V) and with additional cross-content and with-reference measurements. See more projects. Recent papers Temporal Resolution Multiplexing: Exploiting the limitations of spatio-temporal vision for more efficient VR rendering Gyorgy Denes, Kuba Maruszczyk, George Ash, Rafa K. Mantiuk . In: IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, (conditionally accepted), 2019 ( project page ) ( PDF ) A visual model for predicting chromatic banding artifacts Gyorgy Denes, George Ash, Rafa K. Mantiuk . In: Human Vision and Electronic Imaging, 2019 ( PDF ) Exploiting Synthetically Generated Data with Semi-Supervised Learning for Small and Imbalanced Datasets Maria Perez-Ortiz, P. Tio, Rafa K. Mantiuk and C. Hervs-Martnez . In: AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-19), 2019 ( PDF ) Hybrid-MST: A Hybrid Active Sampling Strategy for Pairwise Preference Aggregation Jing Li, Rafa K. Mantiuk and Junle Wang . In: Proc. of Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS), 2018 ( PDF ) Naturally glossy: Gloss perception, illumination statistics, and tone mapping Wendy J. Adams, Gizem Kucukoglu, Michael S. Landy, Rafa K. Mantiuk . In: Journal of Vision, 18, article no. 4, 2018 ( doi ) See all papers . Awards and grants ERC Consolidator Grant (2017) - Perceptual encoding of high fidelity light fields MSCA Innovative Training Network (2018) - RealVision: Hyper-realistic Visual Experience EPSRC research grant (2017) - A spatio-chromatic colour appearance model for retargeting high-dynamic-range image appearance across viewing conditions HPC Wales Research and Innovation grant (2013/14) - Video retargeting for delivery to mobile and future display technologies Royal Society Research Grant (2013) - Limiting factors of perceptual image fidelity EPSRC grant EP/I006575/1 (2011) - Quantifying image quality in computer graphics Heinz Billing Award 2006 My contribution to the organization of research networks and conferences can be found here . Last modified: Wed 23 Jan 13:55:12 GMT 2019 
