 Alan Mycroft Alan Mycroft is Professor of Computing in the Computer Laboratory of Cambridge University; he is also a Fellow at Robinson College and a co-founder of the Raspberry Pi Foundation for which he was also a Trustee 2008-2015. A mini-CV is here (also Wikipedia's view ). Recent book: Java 8 in Action: Lambdas, streams, and functional-style programming (Raoul-Gabriel Urma, Mario Fusco and Alan Mycroft). NEW (2017): Second edition Java 8 and 9 in Action . Recent (summer 2012) opinionated talks on Computing at School, Raspberry Pi and Computational Thinking are based on the more measured slides here . At the Computer Laboratory he is part of the Cambridge Programming Research Group which is now incorporated into the Programming, Logic and Semantics Group . His research interests span an arc from semantic models of programming languages to actually building optimising compilers. A core interest is that of static analysis of programs to extract properties of their run-time behaviour. Such properties can be used to enable optimisations or to facilitate ``compile-time debugging''. His PhD created the subject of ``strictness analysis'' when he argued that apparent run-time inefficiencies in modern high-level languages can often be removed by program analysis and optimisation phases. Other work has encompassed type-based decompilation and also language and compilation issues for ``Silicon Compilers'', i.e.\ compiling specifications directly to hardware. In 2005/06 he held a ``Visiting Faculty'' position with Intel Research Cambridge involving developing languages and techniques for compiling to `multi-core' processors; this research illuminates the benefits of type-like systems of program analysis at enabling programmers to express and manage their implicit treaty with a compiler (``optimise as much as you can, but don't step over the line''). He welcomes applications from potential PhD students in the above (or cognate) areas -- potential PhD applicants are encouraged to send a draft research proposal of their interests. Here a list of Mycroft's research interests and a list of Mycroft's research papers . Mycroft is a founder and board member of EAPLS (European Association for Programming Languages and Systems) -- see the web page to become a member. Current research projects [this section is a couple of years out of data] Languages and compilers for Manycore architectures Compiling using data-dependence graphs such as VSDG Compiling for SWAR (SIMD within a register) architectures Embedded systems Program analysis and compilation techniques applied to hardware Synthesising run-time data-structures from operational semantics Semantics and compilation using continuations Semantics and reasoning for fine-grain concurrency Reasoning about non-traditional systems, such as network configurations Inverse program analysis -- extracting program corrections from program analysis inconsistencies. TIME : transport monitoring systems in Cambridge Recently completed research projects are: Space Optimisation for Embedded Processors (ARM) Resource-Aware Functional Languages for Hardware Synthesis (EPSRC) Optimistic evaluation for lazy programs (Microsoft, joint with Simon Peyton Jones) Here are items relevant to Cambridge University Teaching . Here are some neat programming tricks including MIT's HAKMEM re-coded in C. Alan Mycroft / E-mail am@cl.cam.ac.uk 
