 Lawrence C. Paulson FRS Publications Refereed Articles Workshop Papers Miscellaneous Papers Lecture Courses Books Research Grants ALEXANDRIA: Large-Scale Formal Proof for the Working Mathematician Automatic Proof Procedures for Polynomials and Special Functions Automation for Interactive Proof Beyond Linear Arithmetic Invited Lectures Curriculum Vitae ML for the Working Programmer Publication details Sample programs Answers to exercises Errata Search Web Databases Google Scholar DBLP Trier ACM Digital Library ORCiD 15 JJ Thomson Avenue University of Cambridge CB3 0FD, England Phone: (01223) 334623 Mail: lp15@cam.ac.uk PGP key Susan Paulson 19592010 Professor of Computational Logic Computer Laboratory University of Cambridge orcid.org/0000-0003-0288-4279 New ERC project ALEXANDRIA : making proof assistants useful to mathematicians My research concerns automated theorem proving and its applications: development of Isabelle , with emphasis on automation MetiTarski , an automatic prover for the elementary functions formalising mathematics , including Gdel's incompeteness theorems and constructible universe proving the correctness of security protocols During the 1980s, my research on LCF-style theorem proving introduced concepts such as conversions and theorem continuations , which are still mainstays of HOL theorem prover. I helped design the programming language Standard ML and have written one of the main textbooks, ML for the Working Programmer . Isabelle appeared in 1986, and was later developed in collaboration with Tobias Nipkow and his colleagues at the Technical University of Munich . I am now the Distinguished Affiliated Professor for Logic in Informatics at TUM, honouring my long-standing relationship with that institution. During the 1990s, Isabelle found a worldwide user community . I investigated the mechanization of induction and recursion and their duals, coinduction and corecursion. Early in the 2000s, I formalized deep results of set theory : the reflection theorem and the relative consistency of the axiom of choice. I have recently completed the first machine-assisted formalisation of Gdel's second incompleteness theorem. My best-known research concerns verifying cryptographic protocols using an inductive model. But somehow the most popular of my many publications are my 1997 lecture notes on software engineering! I was elected an ACM Fellow in 2008 for contributions to theorem provers and verification techniques. The Royal Society elected me to a Fellowship in 2017. In that year I also received the Herbrand Award for Distinguished Contributions to Automated Reasoning . I teach one undergraduate lecture course: Logic and Proof (covering automatic theorem-proving technologies such as resolution and SAT-solving). My Master's-level course, Interactive Formal Verification , is a hands-on introduction to Isabelle. Material from some of my past courses is also online. I am a Fellow of Clare College , where I have responsibility for admitting and supervising Computer Science students. I sit on Clare's Governing Body and on various committees. I have long served as an editor of the Journal of Automated Reasoning and on the Programme Committees of numerous conferences. I was a founding editor of LMS Journal of Computation and Mathematics until 2007. Researcher, Dont Make Your Readers Scream! Usage statistics and various downloads are available. Last revised: 27 November, 2018 
