 Department of Computer Science & Technology Andrew Pitts Department of Computer Science &Technology > AndrewPitts Professor of Theoretical Computer Science Fellow of Darwin College , Cambridge FACM FBCS CITP Contact Professor Andrew M Pitts University of Cambridge Department of Computer Science & Technology William Gates Building 15 JJ Thomson Avenue Cambridge CB3 0FD, UK Office: FC08 Tel: +44 1223 334629 Fax: +44 1223 334678 Email: Andrew.Pitts at cl cam ac uk Publications On-line publications Recent talks Google Scholar profile Research My research makes use of techniques from category theory, mathematical logic and type theory to advance the foundations of programming language semantics and theorem proving systems. I have a long-standing interest in the semantics and logic of names, locality and binding. My aim is to develop mathematical models and methods which aid language design and the development of formal logics for specifying and reasoning about programs. I am particularly interested in higher-order typed programming languages and in dependently typed logics. Nominal Sets provide a promising new mathematical analysis of names in computer science that is based upon symmetry. They have applications to the syntax and semantics of programming language constructs that involve binding and localising the scope of names; to logics that underly systems for machine-assisted reasoning about programming language semantics; and to the automatic verification of process specifications in nominal calculi for concurrency (such as -calculus). Nominal sets and their generalizations are being applied to automata theory over infinite alphabets with applications to querying XML and databases. Nominal sets also feature in recent work on the cubical sets model of Homotopy Type Theory and univalent foundations. Overview of Nominal Techiques . Book: Nominal Sets: Names and Symmetry in Computer Science . [ Errata ] Mark Shinwell and Andrew Pitts' Fresh O'Caml functional programming language . James Cheney and Christian Urban's Prolog logic programming language . Maribel Fernndez, Jamie Gabbay and Ian Mackie's Nominal Rewriting Systems . (PPDP most influential paper 10-year award 2014.) Christian Urban and Stefan Berghofer's Nominal package for Isabelle/HOL . Christian Urban and Christine Tasson's 2005 paper on Nominal techniques in Isabelle/HOL won a CADE Skolem Award 2015. The Warsaw blog: Atompress | Computation with atoms . Dominic Mulligan's CiteULike library on Nominal Techniques . Keith Wansbrough's font for typesetting the "freshness quantifier" in TeX/LaTeX . Editorial activities: Journal of the ACM (JACM) Foundations and Trends in Programming Languages Springer Undergraduate Topics in Computer Science Categories and General Algebraic Structures with Applications Upcoming events: 22nd International Conference on Foundations of Software Science and Computation Structures (FoSSaCS) , ETAPS 2019, Prague, Czech Republic, 6-11 April 2019. [SC chair] 34th ACM/IEEE Symposium on Logic in Computer Science (LICS 2019) , Vancouver, Canada, 24-27 June 2019. [PC member] International Conference on Homotopy Type Theory (HoTT 2019) , Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, USA, 12-17 August 2019. [Invited speaker] Cambridge Programming, Logic, and Semantics Group Agda code: Quotient types using private and primTrustMe declarations [ quotient.agda ]. Pritam Choudhury's Constructive Representation of Nominal Sets in Agda (project for the Cambridge MPhil in Advanced Computer Science 2015) [ disseration (pdf) ] [ agda sources (zip) ] Agda code accompanying the paper Axioms for Modelling Cubical Type Theory in a Topos (joint work with Ian Orton ). Agda code accompanying the BigProof talk Using Agda to Explore Path-Oriented Models of Type Theory (27 June 2017). Agda code accompanying the paper Internal Universes in Models of Homotopy Type Theory (joint work with Dan Licata, Ian Orton and Bas Spitters). Teaching Lecture material for 2018/19 courses: CST Part IB Computation Theory CST Part II Denotational Semantics MPhil ACS, CST Part III Category Theory Lecture material for old courses: Types (Last used for 2016/17 CST Part II.) Discrete Mathematics (Last used for 2014/15 CST Part IA.) Nominal Sets and Their Applications (Last used for 2013/14 MPhil ACS, CST Part III.) Regular Languages and Finite Automata (Last used for 2012/13 CST Part IA.) Semantics of HOT Languages (Last used for 2009/10 MPhil ACS.) Semantics of Programming Languages (Last used for 2001/02 CST Part IB.) Please send any comments to Andrew.Pitts at cl cam ac uk Page last updated on 2019-01-30 by Andrew Pitts 
