 Department of Bioengineering logo and link to department website UW Bioengineering UW College of Engineering UW Medicine Search this website Menu Home Research Publications People Jobs News Photo Gallery Contact Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer Yazdan Lab: Neuroengineering and Neurorehabilitation Home Neuroengineering and Neurorehabilitation The focus of our lab is on developing novel neural interfaces as well as investigating the plasticity mechanism of the brain. Our goal is to use neural technologies to develop stimulation-based therapies to help restore function and mobility in people with neurological disorders such as stroke. The lab is led by Dr. Azadeh Yazdan-Shahmorad and is part of the Departments of Bioengineering and Electrical Engineering at the University of Washington. We are also part of the following research centers and programs: Washington National Primate Research Center Center for Sensorimotor Neural Engineering University of Washington Institute for Neuroengineering Neuroscience Graduate Program Primary Sidebar Recent News Our cake won the second place at the Bioengineering holiday party! Watch the video abstract of our eLife paper on how neural stimulation changes the functional connectivity in the brain! Our paper titled: Targeted cortical reorganization using optogenetics in non-human primates was published in eLife. Dr. Yazdan received a K12 career development award. An illuminating experience: New methods are enabling neuroscientists to apply optogenetics to big brains. Job Postings Post-doctoral Position in Neural Engineering/Neuroscience Footer UW Resources Accessibility Contact UW UW Jobs Campus Safety MyUW Rules Docket Privacy Terms University of Washington home page UWs Be Boundless website Connect with Us Department of Bioengineering University of Washington Box 355061 Seattle, WA 98195-5061 (206) 685-2000 Get in touch with us UW Bioengineering on Facebook UW Bioengineering on Instagram UW Bioengineering on LinkedIn UW Bioengineering on Youtube BioE Quicklinks UW Department of Bioengineering MyBioE UW BioE Sites Home UW Home UW College of Engineering UW School of Medicine 2019 University of Washington 
