Alex Aiken Alcatel-Lucent Professor Stanford University past portraits Contact FAQ Publications Software Bio Teaching Research Misc Current Students Graduated Students Contact Information emailaiken@cs.stanford.edu office434 Gates phone650-725-3359 assistant Sue George sue.george@stanford.edu 650-725-2340 Biographical Sketch Alex Aiken is the Alcatel-Lucent Professor of Computer Science at Stanford. Alex received his Bachelors degree in Computer Science and Music from Bowling Green State University in 1983 and his Ph.D. from Cornell University in 1988. Alex was a Research Staff Member at the IBM Almaden Research Center (1988-1993) and a Professor in the EECS department at UC Berkeley (1993-2003) before joining the Stanford faculty in 2003. His research interest is in areas related to programming languages. He is an ACM Fellow, a recipient of Phi Beta Kappa's Teaching Award, and a former chair of the Stanford Computer Science Department (2014-18). Alex is married to Jennifer Widom. Jennifer and Alex have a son Tim and a daughter Emily. Here are some photos from the family's travels. New 8/2018 Lux, a system for high performance graph processing, is now available. Lux is built on top of Legion. 7/2018 I gave the commencement speech at CS graduation during the time I was department chair (well, I did miss one year ...). I've received requests for links to those speeches, so here they are: 2015, 2017, and 2018. Teaching CS315B: Programming Supercomputers CS143: Compilers My publicly available, free, self-study compilers course. The course covers the essentials of compiler construction, plus material on language design and semantics, optimization, and bit on the history of programming languages. There are optional programming assignments for hard-core enthusiasts who want to build a full, functioning compiler for COOL, the Classroom Object Oriented Language. Stanford Software Seminar The weekly software research lunch. Research Projects Legion is a programming system for heterogenous, parallel machines with complex memory hierarchies. A Legion tutorial Materials from the third annual Legion Bootcamp STOKE is a stochastic optimizer and associated verification techniques for X86 binaries I also maintain a page of past research projects and a set of pages internal to current projects. Miscellany In 2018 I celebrated the (almost) end of my term as department chair by hiking the Sierra High Route. Here is the trip report. In 2017 I organized the annual PSAAP II WEST workshop Advice for Program Chairs distills my experience (and things I've learned from many other people) as a program chair for POPL and PLDI. Here is my program chair's report for PLDI'10. Unfortunatley the pdf can't correctly display some things in the report, so here is the original Power Point as well. I delivered a memorial for John Backus at PLDI'07. My family took most of the '07-'08 academic year off to travel the world. Those with too much time on their hands can check out the trip's web page. Current Ph.D. Students Berkeley Churchill Zhihao Jia Jason Koenig Wonchan Lee Manolis Papadakis Todd Warszawski
