Faculty Leonidas Guibas Post Docs Srinath Sridhar Anastasia Dubrovina Graduate Students Panagiotis Achlioptas Vignesh Ganapathi-Subramanian Davis Rempe Minhyuk Sung Li Yi Kaichun Mo Fei Xia Jingwei Huang He Wang Recent Alumni Charles R. Qi Mira Shalah Tanya Glozman Hao Su Olga Diamanti Chengcheng Tang Yang Li Soren Pirk Cewu Lu Chen Chen Yusuke Yoshiyasu Chris Piech Yangyan Li Roland Angst Vladimir G. Kim Takuya Funatomi Fan Wang Justin Solomon Andy Nguyen Bart Adams Emilio Antunez Mirela Ben-Chen Adrian Butscher Daniel Chen Ian Downes Qing Fang Jie Gao Natasha Gelfand Leilani Gilpin Omprakash Gnawali Chen Gu Kyle Heath Nan Hu Jonathan Huang Qixing Huang Xiaoye Jiang Evangelos Kalogerakis Michael Kerber Young Min Kim Rachel Kolodny Brano Kusy HyungJune Lee Nikola Milosavljevic Niloy Mitra Dmitriy Morozov Arik Motskin An Nguyen Steve Oudot Maks Ovsjanikov Jaehyun Park Mark Pauly Manjunath Rajashekhar Daniel Russel Raif Rustamov Jaewon Shin Primoz Skraba Jian Sun Art Tevs Michael Wand Martin Wicke Danny Yang Afra Zomorodian Home Leonidas J. Guibas Paul Pigott Professor of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering (courtesy) in the School of Engineering Professor Guibas heads the Geometric Computation group in the Computer Science Department of Stanford University. He is acting director of the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory and member of the Computer Graphics Laboratory, the Institute for Computational and Mathematical Engineering (iCME) and the Bio-X program. His research centers on algorithms for sensing, modeling, reasoning, rendering, and acting on the physical world. Professor Guibas' interests span computational geometry, geometric modeling, computer graphics, computer vision, sensor networks, robotics, and discrete algorithms --- all areas in which he has published and lectured extensively. Examples of current and recent activities include: data structures for mobile data (kinetic data structures) ad-hoc sensor and communication networks randomized geometric algorithms rounding and approximating geometric structures local and global analysis with point cloud data Monte-Carlo algorithms for global illumination and motion planning organizing and searching libraries of 3D shapes and images physical simulations involving deformations and contacts estimation of mappings between 3D shapes functional maps and unctional maps networks for interlinking shape and image collections deep architectures for geometric data, including pointclouds the development of the ShapeNet annotated 3D model repository analysis of GPS traces and other mobility data Leonidas Guibas obtained his Ph.D. from Stanford in 1976, under the supervision of Donald Knuth. His main subsequent employers were Xerox PARC, MIT, and DEC/SRC. He has been at Stanford since 1984 as Professor of Computer Science. Professor Guibas has graduated 41 Ph.D. students and has supervised 29 postdoctoral fellows, many of whom are well-known in computational geometry, in computer graphics, in computer vision, in theoretical computer science, and in ad hoc and sensor networks. At Stanford he has developed new courses in algorithms and data structures, geometric modeling, geometric algorithms, computational biology, and sensor networks. Professor Guibas is a member of the US National Academy of Engineering and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, an ACM Fellow, an IEEE Fellow and winner of the ACM Allen Newell award, the ICCV Helmholtz prize, and a DoD Vennevar Bush Faculty Fellowship. Home Publications Contact Copyright 2018 -- Leonidas Guibas. All rights reserved.
