SUBHASISH MITRA Professor Department of Electrical Engineering and Department of Computer Science Stanford University Address: Gates Building, Room 334 353 Serra Mall, Stanford, CA 94305 Email: subh at stanford dot edu Phone: 650-724-1915 Admin: Beverly Davis Email: beverlyd at stanford dot edu Office: Gates Building, Room 336 Phone: 650-723-1458 Research interests: Robust computing, nanosystems, VLSI (design, validation, test & electronic design automation), computer architecture, neurosciences Publications Honors Professional Activities Biography: Subhasish Mitra is Professor of Electrical Engineering and of Computer Science at Stanford University, where he directs the Stanford Robust Systems Group and co-leads the Computation focus area of the Stanford SystemX Alliance. He is also a faculty member of the Stanford Neurosciences Institute. Prof. Mitra holds the Carnot Chair of Excellence in Nanosystems at CEA-LETI in Grenoble, France. Before joining the Stanford faculty, he was a Principal Engineer at Intel Corporation. Prof. Mitra's research interests range broadly across robust computing, nanosystems, VLSI design, validation, test and electronic design automation, and neurosciences. He, jointly with his students and collaborators, demonstrated the first carbon nanotube computer and the first three-dimensional nanosystem with computation immersed in data storage. These demonstrations received wide-spread recognitions (cover of NATURE, Research Highlight to the United States Congress by the National Science Foundation, highlight as "important, scientific breakthrough" by the BBC, Economist, EE Times, IEEE Spectrum, MIT Technology Review, National Public Radio, New York Times, Scientific American, Time, Wall Street Journal, Washington Post and numerous others worldwide). His earlier work on X-Compact test compression has been key to cost-effective manufacturing and high-quality testing of almost all electronic systems. X-Compact and its derivatives have been implemented in widely-used commercial Electronic Design Automation tools. Prof. Mitra's honors include the ACM SIGDA/IEEE CEDA A. Richard Newton Technical Impact Award in Electronic Design Automation (a test of time honor), the Semiconductor Research Corporation's Technical Excellence Award, the Intel Achievement Award (Intels highest corporate honor), and the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers from the White House (the highest United States honor for early-career outstanding scientists and engineers). He and his students published several award-winning papers at major venues: ACM/IEEE Design Automation Conference, IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference, ACM/IEEE International Conference on Computer-Aided Design, IEEE International Test Conference, IEEE Transactions on CAD, IEEE VLSI Test Symposium, and the Symposium on VLSI Technology. At Stanford, he has been honored several times by graduating seniors "for being important to them during their time at Stanford." Prof. Mitra served on the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency's (DARPA) Information Science and Technology Board as an invited member. He is a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).
