Photo credit: Hector Garcia-Molina Mehran Sahami Professor (Teaching) of Computer Science Associate Chair for Education and Director of Educational Affairs, Computer Science Robert and Ruth Halperin University Fellow in Undergraduate Education Gates Building, Room 180 Computer Science Department Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305 Email: sahami at cs.stanford.edu Office Phone: (650) 723-6059 My office hours for Winter 2018-19 are Wednesdays 3:00-5:00pm in Gates 180. Bio In 2007, I joined the faculty in the Computer Science Department at Stanford University. From 2001 to 2006, I also taught in the CS department at Stanford as a Lecturer. From 2002-2007, I was a full-time Senior Research Scientist at Google. After moving to Stanford, I continued to consult at Google part-time until 2010. My research interests include computer science education, machine learning, and information retrieval on the Web. Please see my publications web page for more information. Previously, I worked for several years as a Senior Engineering Manager at Epiphany. Prior to working at Epiphany, I completed my PhD in the Computer Science Department at Stanford. I was also an undergrad at Stanford and I loved it so much that I didn't want to leave. Outside of work, I enjoy spending time with family, playing the guitar, going on outdoor excursions, and sleeping (which seems to be getting rarer and rarer these days). I also continue to maintain a foot in the start-up world by serving on advisory boards to various companies. Undergraduate Computer Science Major If you are thinking about Computer Science as a potential major, you can find more information here. Current Stuff O' Interest (i.e., Professional Activities) ACM Steering Committee Chair, ACM/IEEE-CS Joint Task Force on Computing Curricula 2013 (CS2013) Jointly sponsored by ACM and the IEEE-Computer Society, CS2013 is effort to define curricular guidelines for undergraduate programs in Computer Science on an international level. Founder and first Chair (in 2010), EAAI: Symposium on Educational Advances in Artificial Intelligence. Sponsored by AAAI, EAAI is an annual meeting for researchers and educators to discuss pedagogical issues and share resources related to teaching AI and using AI in education across a variety of curricular levels. Text Mining book available! Ashok Srivastava (NASA) and I published a book entitled "Text Mining: Classification, Clustering, and Applications." The book is available from Amazon. Selected Publications Classes that I'm currently scheduled to teach this year (2018-19) are: Autumn: CS106A: Programming Methodology Winter: CS181: Computers, Ethics, and Public Policy. Here's a video a former student of mine posted on YouTube about it being a great time to be a computer scientist. Stanford has released on-line videos and materials for several courses through the Stanford Engineering Everywhere initiative. The lecture videos are also available through YouTube. Here is a sample of courses: CS106A CS106B CS107 Older Stuff That You Might Still Want Links To 2008 AAAI Spring Symposium on Using AI to motivate greater participation in Computer Science. In the summer of 2007 I organized the Google Education Summit. A posting on the Google blog provides more information about the summit and has links to the presentations given there. With Thorsten Joachims, Andrew McCallum and Lyle Ungar, I co-organized an IJCAI-99 workshop on Machine Learning for Information Filtering. With Ronny Kohavi, I co-organized a panel entitled Integrating Data Mining into Vertical Solutions: Problems and Challenges at KDD-99. I organized the ICML/ AAAI-98 Workshop on Learning for Text Categorization with Mark Craven, Thorsten Joachims, and Andrew McCallum. To see what was included in the workshop, you can still obtain the workshop program (including the list of accepted papers). The workshop proceedings are now available as a technical report from AAAI. In the days of yore I was a Resident Fellow at Naranja House in Lagunita Court for four years. More teaching! Some of the other classes that I may teach from time to time include: CS106A: Programming Methodology CS106B: Programming Abstractions CS106X: Programming Methodology and Abstractions (Accelerated) CS109: Introduction to Probability for Computer Scientists CS121: Introduction to Artificial Intelligence CS181: Computers, Ethics, and Public Policy
