Jennifer Widom Frederick Emmons Terman Dean of the School of EngineeringFletcher Jones Professor in Computer Science and Electrical Engineering Stanford University In March 2017 I became Stanford's 10th Dean of Engineering. News release here and new home page here I spent my 2016-17 fall-winter sabbatical traveling the world offering free short-courses and workshops. Details here For an update on Stanford's MOOC offering in Databases, please visit this page Biographical Sketch Jennifer Widom is the Frederick Emmons Terman Dean of the School of Engineering and the Fletcher Jones Professor in Computer Science and Electrical Engineering at Stanford University. She served as Computer Science Department Chair from 2009-2014 and School of Engineering Senior Associate Dean from 2014-2016. Jennifer received her Bachelor's degree from the Indiana University Jacobs School of Music in 1982 and her Computer Science Ph.D. from Cornell University in 1987. She was a Research Staff Member at the IBM Almaden Research Center before joining the Stanford faculty in 1993. Her research interests span many aspects of nontraditional data management. She is an ACM Fellow and a member of the National Academy of Engineering and the American Academy of Arts & Sciences; she received a Guggenheim Fellowship in 2000, the ACM SIGMOD Edgar F. Codd Innovations Award in 2007, the ACM-W Athena Lecturer Award in 2015, and the EPFL-WISH Foundation Erna Hamburger Prize in 2018. Complete CV here Contact and Miscellaneous Email: widom@stanford.edu Assistant: Kamryn Kurtzner, kamrynk@stanford.edu, 650-721-1432 Office: Huang Engineering Center suite #227 CS102: Big Data - Tools and Techniques, Discoveries and Pitfalls Publications (or use the InfoLab publication server) Here's an aging document containing Tips for Writing Technical Papers -- derived from a lunch presentation I gave on the topic Along the same lines, when I was PC Chair for SIGMOD '05 I wrote up some Tips for a Good Conference Talk Research Projects GPS: A Large-Scale Graph Processing System LORE: A database management system for XML Panda: A System for Provenance and Data RAMP: A Hadoop Extension for Provenance Support Scoop: The Stanford - Santa-Cruz Project for Cooperative Computing with Algorithms, Data, and People STREAM: STanford stREam dAta Manager TRAPP: Tradeoff in Replication Precision and Performance Trio: A DBMS for integrated management of data, accuracy, and lineage WHIPS: Building and maintaining data warehouses WSMS: A Web Service Management System WSQ/DSQ (pronounced "wisk-disk"): Integrating database queries and Web searches. 3X: A Tool for Executing Exploratory Experiments Personal Jennifer is married to Alex Aiken. They have two grown chidren, Tim and Emily. Here are Tim and Emily over 20 years ago, enjoying some light reading. Tim is a serious photographer; here's his photo site. Worldwide adventure travel is a major hobby for our family: Here's a log with selected photos from our travels, a list of off-the-beaten-path travel favorites, and a travel quote I really like. In 2007-08 we took a Year Off for Travel. I wrote a set of "travelogs" as we went. Long, long ago I wrote an essay on Adventure Travel with Children Under Four, and then two addenda: Adventure Travel with Children Ages 4-6, and Bareboat Cruising with Young Children. Except for the Year Off Travelogs, my essays didn't keep pace with the ages and travel activities of my children.