 Welcome Courses Publications & Patents Contact Welcome Hopefully these pages will provide some insight to my computer science teaching and research at Wake Forest University. If you have any questions or interest, just drop by my office (Manchester 239). Current Research My research interests are primarily in security and computer networks. Current research projects include the following. Nature-Inspired Design Designs found in nature can serve as a source of inspiration, providing robust and efficient methods that are well suited to address various complex problems. We have several projects that seek to address difficult computer science problems using bio-inspired approaches such as: network security using digital ants, genetic based computer management, and application discovery using motifs. Our current nature-inspired project uses evolution-based techniques to manage different types of complex systems (for example, computer servers or surveillance cameras). The approach improves system resilience by automatically adapting to environment changes (such as, user demand, software additions and/or updates, as well as attacks). Other nature-inspired projects include Computer Evolution as a Moving Target Defense Ant-Based Cyber Defense Network Security Group This research group is investigating several security issues related to the next generation of high-speed and QoS-enabled networks. The group is directed by me and all those interested are invited to join. Failure prediction and management Prediction methods for critical computer events (hardware/software failures and security). Given the increased reliance on parallel/distributed systems, managing failure will become critical. Research Sponsors Research has been sponsored by the following agencies, foundations, and corporations. I gratefully acknowledge their guidance and support. AFOSR DARPA Cisco Systems, Inc. Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory National Science Foundation NEC C&CRL USA Pacific Northwest National Laboratory Shively Family Fellowship U.S. Department of Energy Wake Forest University Student Research If you are a WFU student and interested in computer science research, just drop by my office and discuss. I have been fortunate to work with following undergraduate and graduate students on different research projects. Undergraduate Cameron Kluth, Graham Kennedy, Adam Reilly, Jeff Shirley, Rob Haining, Katie Batten, Steve Tarsa, Joe Antrosio, Matt Steen, Andrew Schneider, Michael Crouse, Michael Marks, Ian McAuley, Mathew Simari, Bryan Prosser, Scott Seal, Matt McNiece, Sarah Gage, Austin Koeppel, Kyle Flaherty, Ruidan Li, Shucheng (Alex) Liu, and Austin McMackin. Graduate Robin Kester, Ryan Farley, Patrick Wheeler (UC Davis and PNNL), Chris Kopek, Mike Horvath, Richard Hummel, Eddie Allan, Ashish Tapdiya, Chris Weitzen, Brian Williams (meh), Wes Featherstun, Michael Crouse, Chaz Lever, Brad McDanel, Lee Bailey, David Sontheimer, Jacob White, Tess Stamper, Neal Dawes, Brian Lucas, Michael Nipper, Bryan Prosser, Scott Seal, Xin Zhou, Fletcher Hodnett, Caroline Odell, and Sebastian Ramirez. If you are a WFU student and interested in this research, just drop by my office and discuss. Courses for Fall 2018 CSC 112, Fundamentals of CS CSC 348/643, Computer Security Recent Publications Using Evolutionary Diversity to Identify Problematic Software Parameters Errin W. Fulp, H. Donald Gage, and Matthew McNiece In Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy Bio-Inspired Security, Trust, Assurance, and Resilience (BioSTAR'17), 2017 Evolutionary Approaches for Resilient Surveillance Management Ruidan Li and Errin W. Fulp In Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy Bio-Inspired Security, Trust, Assurance, and Resilience (BioSTAR'17), 2017 Network Security Group From distributed firewall designs to ant-based intrusion detection, the NSG is investigating techniques to address the next generation of security threats. Current Student Projects An Evolutionary Approach to Surveillance System Management Ruidan Li Evolving Network Firewall Security Policies Shucheng (Alex) Liu Automated Software Configuration Management using Evolutionary Algorithms your name here ~fulp Welcome Courses Publications and Patents Contact External Links Network Security Group WFU Graduate School TeX Users Group Contact Information Telephone: Office: Email: Post: (336) 758 - 3752 239 Manchester Hall fulp @ wfu.edu Department of Computer Science Box 7311 Wake Forest University Winston-Salem, NC 27109 2018 ERRIN FULP. All Rights Reserved. 
