 Wayne Hayes 's Home Page My permanent position is as an Associate Professor at the School of Information and Computer Science at the University of California, Irvine, My e-mail address at UCI is {my-first-name} at ics.uci.edu, and my snail mail address at UCI is Wayne Hayes, 4092 Bren Hall, University of California, Irvine Ca 92697-3435. In 2010 I held a Visiting Fellowship at the Oxford Centre for Collaborative Applied Mathematics at Oxford University . During the 2009-2010 academic year, I was a Visiting Lecturer (US equivalent of Assistant Professor) in the Applied Mathematics and Mathematical Physics section of the Department of Mathematics at Imperial College London . I finished my Ph.D. in the Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing group in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Toronto . 2001. I worked at Altera Corp. for 1 year, then at The Fields Institute for Research in Mathematical Science for another year. I then pursued a joint post-doctoral fellowship in computational biology at the The Institute for Physical Sciences and Technology at the University of Maryland under recent Japan Prize winner James Yorke , and the Bio-Informatics Group at Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto under Chris Hogue . I also have some loose ties with the Canadian Institute for Theoretical Astrophysics (CITA to its friends) the University of Toronto Astronomy Department , and the Physics Department , especially the Nonlinear Studies Group . Students Ph.D Shyam Srinivasan (jointly advised with Ed Monuki of Biology). Defended June 2011. Now a post-doc at UCSD. Yong-Kang Zhu , 2005-2010. Now at Google. Weng Leong Ng , 2006-2011. Now at Google. Darren R. Davis , 2008-present. M.Sc. Anton Malykh , M.Sc. Thesis. Graduated 2009. Now at Google. Undergraduate Researchers Jason Lai: Various high-tech programming tasks off-and-on until 2009. Nema Press: Enumerating Circulants without isomorphs, off-and-on until 2008. David Hubin: Summer 2006; a bit of bio-informatics. Eric Hu: Summer 2005 to Winter 2007. Various scientific computing tasks including cubic interpolation code for n-body simulations. Patrick Schultz: shadowing tri-axial potentials. Now in grad school at UCLA. Troy High School Interns Benjamin Coleman, Summer 2008: ideal gas /billiard ball graphical simulator . Jonathan Ho and Jay Whang, Summer 2009: search for lower bounds on Ramsey Numbers. Anthony Huang, Summer 2009: search for near-noncollision singularities in the n-body problem. Contents Current Research and Academic Interests My Curriculum Vit (academic equivalent of a resume) in PDF , in postscript and in raw text . There is also a two-page version ( 2-page PDF , 2-page postscript ), and a one-page version ( 1-page PDF , 1-page postscript ). Papers and Talks My Thesis work : N-body Problem, Chaos, Shadowing Computer Communications Networks Graph Ramsey Numbers Portable, re-usable code library of data structures and algorithms Unix utilities Personal stuff Online Journals; Preprint, abstract, and bibliographic servers Literature McDonalds's Calorie Info Why Microsoft sucks Miscellaneous Links Stop the Hacker! Wayne Hayes, Dept. of Computer Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada, M5S 3G4 wayne@cs.utoronto.ca Access count (updated once a day) since 1 Jan 1997: 16670 
