 David John Search this site David John bchc ga "how to" PDC Modules (with Stan Thomas) Sitemap David John Professor of Computer Science Faculty Director of WakerSpace 251 Manchester Hall ( Building 20A ) Wake Forest University djjATwfu.edu I am a faculty member in the Department of Computer Science at Wake Forest University . The Computer Science department offers undergraduate and graduate degrees through Wake Forest College and Wake Forest Graduate School of Arts and Sciences , respectively. I am also affiliated with the Wake Forest Center forMolecularSignaling and Communication (CMSC). For 2018-2020 I have been appointed the Faculty Director of WakerSpace, the Wake Forest University maker space. WakerSpace is a new opportunity available to the Wake Forest community. Much more information about WakerSpace will be forthcoming soon. Fall 2018courses : CSC222 (Data Structures and Algorithms II), CSC721 (Algorithms) Detailed information about these courses are available to the registered students within the Wake Forest Learning Management System . The focus of my current research interests is the development of high quality gene interaction models from multiple replicates of gene transcription data. The modeling process is based on specialized genetic algorithms in conjunction with Bayesian based likelihood functions. Directed acyclic graphs play a most important role in this modeling approach. We are actively working with the addition of time series adjustment to the core directed acyclic graph analysis paradigms. This is interdisciplinary research with colleagues in CMSC. Ancillary research involves Wake Forest undergraduate research assistants: SQ, KH and ZG. SQ is studying algorithms that enumerate simple cycles in a directed graph. Her goal is to improve the restoration of a directed graph, produced by combination of directed acyclic graphs, to a directed acyclic graph. KH is developing a scheme, based on hashing, of efficientlysearching for directed acyclic graphs. ZG is studying python based parallel and distributed computation. His goal is to incorporate a shared hash table, storing directed acyclic graphs, into a parallelexecution of the gene interaction modeling program. With Professors Muday, Turkett, and Norris, we are collaborating on an NSF funded research project: Ethylene Transcriptional Networks. Outside of work, I enjoy being out of doors. From yard work, to trail work with PATH on the Appalachian Trail, to backpacking, I keep quite active. As well, my wife and I enjoy eating, visiting with family and friends, listening to music, reading and just hanging out. Other web sites you might find interesting: Department of Computer Science, Wake Forest University Wake Forest University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Wake Forest University Wake Forest College, Wake Forest University Subpages (2): bchc ga "how to" PDC Modules (with Stan Thomas) Sign in | Recent Site Activity | Report Abuse | Print Page | Powered By Google Sites 
