 Sameer Singh Skip to content About Teaching Publications People News Upcoming... Fall 2018 Attending EMNLP 2018 in Brussels, Belgium. Latest News August 2018 Two papers accepted to EMNLP 2018 . Invited talk at KAIST and at the ExoBrain meeting in South Korea. July 2018 Received the Honourable Mention for Best Paper award at ACL 2018 for automatically debugging NLP models using SEARs . Gave an invited talk at the ACL 2018 workshop on Machine Reading for Question Answering (MRQA) . Invited talk at the Joint Statistical Meetings (JSM) 2018 in Vancouver. Invited talk at TTIC Workshop on Collaborative and Knowledge-backed Language Generation . June 2018 Awarded the ICS Dean's Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching for 2018. April 2018 Paper on automatically debugging NLP models accepted to ACL 2018 as a talk. Talk at the UCSD AI Seminar . Gave an invited talk at the FICO World 2018 in Miami. Organized SoCal NLP Symposium in Irvine, CA on April 6th with William Wang . February 2018 Gave a talk at Caltech as part of the IST Lunch . Attended AAAI 2018 in New Orleans. Presented a tutorial at WSDM 2018 in Los Angeles. January 2018 Two papers accepted to ICLR 2018 . Organized the 2nd UCI hosted National Computational Linguistics Olympiad (NACLO) in Irvine, CA. December 2017 Gave invited talks at the NIPS 2017 workshops on Learning with Limited Labeled Data (LLD) and Automated KB Construction (AKBC) . Students presented their research at NIPS Workshops on Machine Deception , Automated KB Construction (AKBC) , and Women in Machine Learning (WiML) . Invited talk at the H2O World 2017 . November 2017 Work on precise model-agnostic explanations accepted to AAAI 2018 . ... more Sameer Singh 4204 Donald Bren Hall University of California Irvine, CA 92697-3435 sameer@uci.edu Assistant Professor Dept of Computer Science Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences (also affiliated with Linguistics and EECS ) Dr. Sameer Singh is an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at the University of California, Irvine . He is working on large-scale and interpretable machine learning applied to information extraction and natural language processing. Before UCI, Sameer was a Postdoctoral Research Associate at the University of Washington , working primarily with Carlos Guestrin . He received his PhD from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst in 2014 under the supervision of Andrew McCallum , during which he also interned at Microsoft Research, Google Research, and Yahoo! Labs. He was awarded the Adobe Research Data Science Faculty Award, was selected as a DARPA Riser, won the grand prize in the Yelp dataset challenge , and received the Yahoo! Key Scientific Challenge( umass story , yahoo story ). Curriculum Vitae External Links Github Twitter Google Scholar LinkedIn DBLP Academia.edu ACM DL Appointments Univ of California Irvine CA Assistant Professor 2016 - current Univ of Washington Seattle WA Postdoctoral Researcher 2013 - 2016 Education PhD (CS) Univ of Massachusetts Amherst MA 2014 MS (CS) Vanderbilt University Nashville TN 2007 BEng (EE) University of Delhi New Delhi 2004 High School Sardar Patel Vidyalaya New Delhi 2000 Industry Microsoft Research Cambridge UK Research Intern Summer 2012 Google Research Mountain View CA Research Intern Summer 2010 Yahoo! Labs Sunnyvale CA Research Intern Summer 2009 Google Piitsburgh PA Research Intern Summer, Fall 2007 Selected Recent Publications see all... M. Tulio Ribeiro , S. Singh , C. Guestrin . "Why Should I Trust You?": Explaining the Predictions of Any Classifier. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD). 2016 Conference Also presented at the CHI 2016 Workshop on Human-Centred Machine Learning (HCML). Download Paper (PDF) ArXiv version Project page Code for Synthetic Experiments Abstract BibTex Coming Soon! @inproceedings{lime:kdd16, author = {Marco Tulio Ribeiro and Sameer Singh and Carlos Guestrin}, title = { "Why Should I Trust You?": Explaining the Predictions of Any Classifier }, booktitle = {Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD)}, year = {2016} } T. Rocktaschel , S. Singh , S. Riedel . Injecting Logical Background Knowledge into Embeddings for Relation Extraction. Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (NAACL). 2015 Conference Download Paper (PDF) Presentation Source code Talk video Abstract BibTex Matrix factorization approaches to relation extraction provide several attractive features: they support distant supervision, handle open schemas, and leverage unlabeled data. Unfortunately, these methods share a shortcoming with all other distantly supervised approaches: they cannot learn to extract target relations without existing data in the knowledge base, and likewise, these models are inaccurate for relations with sparse data. Rule-based extractors, on the other hand, can be easily extended to novel relations and improved for existing but inaccurate relations, through first-order formulae that capture auxiliary domain knowledge. However, usually a large set of such formulae is necessary to achieve generalization. In this paper, we introduce a paradigm for learning low-dimensional embeddings of entity-pairs and relations that combine the advantages of matrix factorization with first-order logic domain knowledge. We introduce simple approaches for estimating such embeddings, as well as a novel training algorithm to jointly optimize over factual and first-order logic information. Our results show that this method is able to learn accurate extractors with little or no distant supervision alignments, while at the same time generalizing to textual patterns that do not appear in the formulae. @inproceedings{logicmf:naacl15, author = {Tim Rocktaschel and Sameer Singh and Sebastian Riedel}, title = {Injecting Logical Background Knowledge into Embeddings for Relation Extraction}, booktitle = {Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (NAACL)}, year = {2015} } T. Chen , S. Singh , B. Taskar , C. Guestrin . Efficient Second-Order Gradient Boosting for Conditional Random Fields. International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics (AISTATS). 2015 Conference Download Paper (PDF) Abstract BibTex Coming Soon! @inproceedings{gbcrf:aistats15, author = {Tianqi Chen and Sameer Singh and Ben Taskar and Carlos Guestrin}, title = {Efficient Second-Order Gradient Boosting for Conditional Random Fields}, booktitle = {International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics (AISTATS)}, year = {2015} } X. Ling , S. Singh , D. Weld . Design Challenges for Entity Linking. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics (TACL). 2015 Journal To be presented at ACL, Beijing, July 26-31, 2015. Download Paper (PDF) TACL Page TACL PDF Abstract BibTex Recent research on entity linking (EL) has introduced a plethora of promising techniques, ranging from deep neural networks to joint inference. But despite numerous papers there is surprisingly little understanding of the state of the art in EL. We attack this confusion by analyzing differences between several versions of the EL problem and presenting a simple yet effective, modular, unsupervised system, called Vinculum, for entity linking. We conduct an extensive evaluation on nine data sets, comparing Vinculum with two state-of-the-art systems, and elucidate key aspects of the system that include mention extraction, candidate generation, entity type prediction, entity coreference, and coherence. @misc{el:tacl15, author = {Xiao Ling and Sameer Singh and Dan Weld}, title = {Design Challenges for Entity Linking}, series = {Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics (TACL)}, year = {2015} } Upcoming... Fall 2018 Attending EMNLP 2018 in Brussels, Belgium. Latest News August 2018 Two papers accepted to EMNLP 2018 . Invited talk at KAIST and at the ExoBrain meeting in South Korea. July 2018 Received the Honourable Mention for Best Paper award at ACL 2018 for automatically debugging NLP models using SEARs . Gave an invited talk at the ACL 2018 workshop on Machine Reading for Question Answering (MRQA) . Invited talk at the Joint Statistical Meetings (JSM) 2018 in Vancouver. Invited talk at TTIC Workshop on Collaborative and Knowledge-backed Language Generation . June 2018 Awarded the ICS Dean's Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching for 2018. April 2018 Paper on automatically debugging NLP models accepted to ACL 2018 as a talk. Talk at the UCSD AI Seminar . Gave an invited talk at the FICO World 2018 in Miami. Organized SoCal NLP Symposium in Irvine, CA on April 6th with William Wang . ... more Tweets by @sameer_ 
