 William H. Turkett, Jr. Last updated: 06/04/2018 I am an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science at Wake Forest University . I received my Ph.D. in 2004 from the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of South Carolina , where my research was in the area of probabilistic reasoning. My BS in Computer Science (1998) was from the College of Charleston . During the 2018-2019 academic year, my service roles include being Associate Chair of the Department of Computer Science, being a member of the University's Learning Spaces Committee, representing the Graduate School to the University's Committee on Information Technology (CIT), and acting as an advisory board member for the University's Center for Molecular Communication and Signaling . I am helping to design a new Biomedical Informatics MS program . In Summer 2015, I was involved in the first WFU Schools of Business Summer Business Analytics Program, teaching a Data Management course as part of the curriculum, focusing on Databases, Big Data. From 2008 to 2013, I directed the EuroTour Study Abroad program . Useful Links CV Recent Publication Highlights Academic Blog Academic Twitter Google Scholar Profile Teaching In Fall 2018, I will be teaching the following courses: CSC/BIO/PHY 385/685 - Bioinformatics CSC 341/641 - Operating Systems I made use of Standards-Based/Specification Grading in my upper level "Parallel Programming" course in Spring 2017 and plan to use it in other CS courses in the future. For my thoughts on that experience, please see my academic blog , and this post specifically. Talks Graduate School in Computer Science: Is It For Me? - Talk at Wake Forest, November 7, 2016 - Click here for slides Research Background: My thesis advisor was Dr. John Rose , who directed my dissertation work on Robust Multiagent Plan Generation and Execution with Decision-Theoretic Planners [PDF, ~1.0MB]. Interests: At Wake Forest, I am actively involved in teaching and research in the broad field of Computational Biosciences , including active collaboration with colleagues in Computer Science, Mathematics, Biology, Physics, and on our Medical School campus. My interests are in applications of machine learning, with current foci on prediction and classification based on DNA and amino acid sequence analysis. I have also been involved in collaborations with the Network Security Group in CS at WFU, led by Errin Fulp . Almost all of my work deals with datasets that are sequential or temporal in nature and are systems-scale. I have some interests in Green Computing, Big Data Analytics Algorithms, and Computer Science Education . Students: I am looking for graduate students to work with on Masters level research. Some example projects will be listed here soon! I am currently working with the following student(s): Jiajie Xiao - Using k-mer representations in functional classification of peroxiredoxin proteins Recently, I worked with the following student(s): Steven Johnson - Fast enumerative algorithm for modification-targeted sequence analysis Charchil Gupta - Discovery of process attributes by dynamic analysis If you are a current WFU undergraduate student and interested in working with me on research, please send an email. I encourage you to look at the Wake Forest Summer Research Fellowship Program as a means of being paid to do research. If you are a current WFU graduate student and want to discuss research, make sure to come to my CSC 781 talk, then send me an email. Current Work: Grants: Ethylene Signaling and Transcriptional Networks that Control Root Development - Role: Co-PI Publications: Engaging non-traditional students in computer science through socially-inspired learning and sustained mentoring , SIGCSE Conference, March 2015 A STEM Incubator to Engage Students in Hands-On, Relevant Learning: A Report from the Field , SIGCSE Conference, March 2016 Service I am a member of the ACM , the professional society for computer science, with additional memberships in the ACM-sponsored SIGBIO (Special Interest Group on Bioinformatics and Computational Biology), SIGCSE (Special Interest Group in Computer Science Education) and CSTA (Computer Science Teachers' Association). I often am a reviewer for the SIGCSE conference and of Grace Hopper Scholarship candidates. 
