 Accessibility Navigation: Skip to the main content Skip to footer Menu Info For Search Search Davidson Search About Academics Admission & Financial Aid Student Life Athletics Offices & Departments Giving Library The Arts Directory Alumni & Families Business & Community On Campus Visitors Inside Davidson Davidson Home ... Academics Mathematics & Computer Science Faculty & Staff Timothy Chartier In This Section Mathematics & Computer Science Mathematics Major & Minor Computer Science Major & Minor Mathematics Courses Computer Science Courses Faculty & Staff Student Activities Community Outreach Timothy Chartier Education Ph.D. University of Colorado, Boulder M.S.,B.S. Western Michigan University Background I'm an applied mathematician with a focus in computer science, and I frequently work in data analytics with a specialty in sports analytics. I've worked with the NBA, ESPN's Sport Science, NASCAR teams, and fantasy sports sites. I also direct and work with a team of about two dozen student researchers to provide analytics to Davidson College sports teams. In addition to my teaching and research, I coauthored Numerical Methods: Design, Analysis, and Computer Implementation of Algorithms with Anne Greenbaum and authored Math Bytes: Google Bombs, Chocolate-Covered Pi, and Other Cool Bits in Computing , which was named a Choice Outstanding Academic Title. Both books were published by Princeton University Press. I also authored When Life is Linear: From Computer Graphics to Bracketology , published by the Mathematical Association of America, which won the Beckenbach Book Prize as a distinguished, innovative book. I am a recipient of a national teaching award from the Mathematical Association of America. In addition to teaching at the college level, I have worked with Google and Pixar on their K-12 educational initiatives. I also received an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship for my research, and have served as an expert resource for a variety of media inquiries, including appearances with Bloomberg TV, NPR, the CBS Evening News, USA Today , and The New York Times . I also serve as vice president of the Mathematical Association of America, and I served as the first chair of the Advisory Council for the National Museum of Mathematics. Contact Info Timothy Chartier Professor Mathematics and Computer Science Department Box 6908 Davidson, NC 28035 704-894-2838 Fax: 704-894-2782 tichartier@davidson.edu Office: Jackson Court 6 Website | Blog Davidson Home ... Academics Mathematics & Computer Science Faculty & Staff Timothy Chartier In This Section Mathematics Major & Minor Computer Science Major & Minor Mathematics Courses Computer Science Courses Faculty & Staff Student Activities Community Outreach 2017 Davidson College Davidson, North Carolina 704-894-2000 Contact Us Maps & Directions Resources Fast Facts College Policies Job Opportunities Technology & Innovation Accessibility Navigation Resources Fast Facts College Policies Job Opportunities Technology & Innovation Accessibility On Campus News Campus Calendar Ticket Office Carnegie Guest House Guest Services Navigation On Campus News Campus Calendar Ticket Office Carnegie Guest House Guest Services Popular Links For the Media Distinctly Davidson Honor Code The Davidson Trust Sustainability Navigation Popular Links For the Media Distinctly Davidson Honor Code The Davidson Trust Sustainability Follow Us Like Davidson College on Facebook Follow Davidson College on Twitter Follow Davidson College on Instagram Follow Davidson College on YouTube Pinterest Follow Davidson College on LinkedIn Additional Links Request Admission Info Schedule a Visit How to Apply To The Top 
