 Accessibility Navigation: Skip to the main content Skip to footer Menu Info For Search Search Davidson Search About Academics Admission & Financial Aid Student Life Athletics Offices & Departments Giving Library The Arts Directory Alumni & Families Business & Community On Campus Visitors Inside Davidson Davidson Home ... Academics Mathematics & Computer Science Faculty & Staff Laurie Heyer In This Section Mathematics & Computer Science Mathematics Major & Minor Computer Science Major & Minor Mathematics Courses Computer Science Courses Faculty & Staff Student Activities Community Outreach Laurie Heyer Education Ph.D. University of Colorado, Boulder M.S., B.S. University of Texas, Arlington Background I came to Davidson in 2000 after a postdoctoral position in the Center for Computational and Experimental Genomics at the University of Southern California. I received my B.S. and M.S. from the University of Texas at Arlington, and was an operations research analyst before doctoral work at the University of Colorado at Boulder. I lecture widely on bioinformatics and, as a member of the genomics program , I regularly supervise student projects at the intersection of mathematics, biology, and computer science. This researchis supported by the National Science Foundationand the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. The second edition of my textbook with Professor Malcolm Campbell of Davidson's Biology Department, Genomics, Proteomics & Bioinformatics , was published in 2006. Contact Info Laurie Heyer John T. Kimbrough Professor of Mathematics Mathematics and Computer Science Department Box 6959 Davidson, NC 28035 704-894-2267 Fax: 704-894-2782 laheyer@davidson.edu Office: Watson 274 Website Davidson Home ... Academics Mathematics & Computer Science Faculty & Staff Laurie Heyer In This Section Mathematics Major & Minor Computer Science Major & Minor Mathematics Courses Computer Science Courses Faculty & Staff Student Activities Community Outreach 2017 Davidson College Davidson, North Carolina 704-894-2000 Contact Us Maps & Directions Resources Fast Facts College Policies Job Opportunities Technology & Innovation Accessibility Navigation Resources Fast Facts College Policies Job Opportunities Technology & Innovation Accessibility On Campus News Campus Calendar Ticket Office Carnegie Guest House Guest Services Navigation On Campus News Campus Calendar Ticket Office Carnegie Guest House Guest Services Popular Links For the Media Distinctly Davidson Honor Code The Davidson Trust Sustainability Navigation Popular Links For the Media Distinctly Davidson Honor Code The Davidson Trust Sustainability Follow Us Like Davidson College on Facebook Follow Davidson College on Twitter Follow Davidson College on Instagram Follow Davidson College on YouTube Pinterest Follow Davidson College on LinkedIn Additional Links Request Admission Info Schedule a Visit How to Apply To The Top 
