Bing  Liu Distinguished Professor Department of Computer Science Contact Building & Room: Daley Library 3-190 C Office Phone Voice: (312) 355-1318 Email: liub@uic.edu Related Sites: View full profile Google Scholar DBLP About Bing Liuis a Distinguished Professor of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC). He received his PhD in Artificial Intelligence from the University of Edinburgh. Before joining UIC, he was a faculty member (associate professor) at School of Computing, National University of Singapore (NUS). Research Interests : Sentiment analysis and opinion mining, lifelong machine learning, data mining, machine learning, and natural language processing (NLP). Research Publications : He has published extensively in top conferences and journals such as KDD, ICML, WWW, ACL, EMNLP, AAAI, IJCAI, TKDE, TWEB, CL, etc. His papers with citations can be found from his Google Scholar page (or hispublication pageor DBLP ). He has also authored four books (3 monographs and 1 textbook): Z. Chen and B. Liu. "Lifelong Machine Learning." Morgan & Claypool Publishers. First edition, November 2016; Second edition, August 2018. B. Liu.  Sentiment Analysis: Mining Opinions, Sentiments, and Emotions . Cambridge University Press, June 2015. B. Liu. Sentiment Analysis and Opinion Mining. Morgan & Claypool Publishers, May, 2012. B. Liu.  Web Data Mining: Exploring Hyperlinks, Contents and Usage Data . Springer, First Edition, 2006; Second Edition, 2011. Research Contributions : He is best known for his pioneering work onsentiment analysis and opinion mining(KDD-2004 paper: KDD-2015 test-of-time paper award),fake/deceptive opinion detection, andassociation rules based classification(KDD-1998 paper: KDD-2014 test-of-time paper award). He is also a pioneer researcher ofPU learning(or learning from positive and unlabeled examples) (or set expansion ),Web data extractionandinterestingness in data mining. In 2013, he started to work onlifelong machine learningand wrote the first ever book dedicated to the topic with his student, published in Nov 2016. Press Coverage : His work has also made important sociatal impact. He and his work have been reported widely inpopular press and tech news mediainternationally, including a front-page article in the New York Times . Selected Publications Published Books Lifelong Machine Learning (Second Edition)
