Leilah  Lyons Associate Professor Department of Computer Science Contact Building & Room: 918 SEO Office Phone Voice: 312-355-1310 Email: llyons@uic.edu Related Sites: View full profile CV About Research Interests: My main area of research interest concerns the design of collaborative, computer-based museum exhibits. As a human-computer interaction researcher interested in facilitating collaborative learning, exhibits provide a unique high-stakes "crucible" for testing the ability of an interaction design to engage learners with the exhibit content and with one another. If you don't get it right, visitors just walk away. My designs, often developed in collaboration with domain experts, employ emerging interactive technologies selected for their unique affordances to make challenging concepts or phenomena more accessible to novice learners. I use these designs to explore both Human-Computer Interaction and Learning Sciences research questions. I have also worked with mobile devices, both in informal learning contexts (where the mobile devices act as Opportunistic User Interfaces to computer-based exhibits) and in formal contexts. Projects: Below is a list of the more established projects I am currently involved in, but I have a number of other projects cooking as well, involving user interface designs resting on technologies as far afield as Augmented Reality, flea power sensors, and mobile GPS. I'll post those here once they simmer down into a thicker broth. They are all in the service of learning, of course, and more often than not, in the service of informal learning. As you can see by my list of collaborators below (who specialize in, variously, Urban Planning, Biology, Environmental Science, History, Geography, and Zoology), I am fairly content-agnostic - nothing inspires me more than getting introduced to a new fascinating field of human endeavor (perhaps because I can better place myself in the shoes of the learner who will one day be using the software experience we create?). Time allowing, I'm always interested in potential collaborations, so do get in touch if you have an idea you'd like to bat around with me. Project Title Project Description Collaborator(s) Funding Source(s)
