press x to close Varun Chandola [CV] Home Research Publications Teaching Talks Software Service About I am a tenure-track assistant professor in the Computer Science and Engineering Department and the Center for Computational Data Science and Engineering (CDSE) at the State University of New York (SUNY) at Buffalo . I completed my PhD from University of Minnesota , Department of Computer Science . My research is in the area of scalable anomaly detection and data mining for big graphs, temporal, and spatial data. I lead the UB Data Science (UBDS) research group. For students : Currently I am not hiring new students (MS or PhD) for my group. Any open positions will be advertised here. Office Hours - 1.00 PM to 3.00 PM, Tuesdays (212 Capen). Please stop by during office hours if you have any academic issue. What's New I am a guest editor for a special issue on Algorithms for Manifold Learning and Its Applications . Submissions welcome. Click here for more information. Awarded a SUNY Seed funding to start a working group to discuss ethical issues with AI. Watch this space for more. Suchismit's paper on streaming methods for Isomap has been accepted for an oral presentation at the SIAM SDM conference. Awarded a NSF SaTC Grant on "Investigation of the Propagation of Error-Resistant and Error-prone Messages over Large-Scale Information Networks" along with Prof. Raghav Rao (UTSA), Prof. Manish Agrawal (USF), and Dr. Rohit Valecha (UTSA). Join us for the CDSE Days event - March 24th - April 1st, 2016 The CDSE PhD program is now official. Interested students can apply for next Fall. I am a co-investigator in the recently funded NSF-CC*NI (DIBBs) grant to setup a cloud federated infrastructure called ARISTOTLE. Click here to know more. Congratulations to my student Suchismit Mahapatra, who won the Travel Award in IEEE Big Data Conference to present his paper on Modeling Large Scale Networks . My IEEE SmartGrid article on Virtualization of the Evolving Power Grid has been included in the IEEE Smart Grid Compendium tagged Smart Grid: The Next Decade . Awarded a Microsoft Azure Grant from Microsoft Research (~$20K, October 2014). Awarded a NSF SaTC Grant on "Insider Threat Detection" along with Prof. Ngo (PI), Prof. Upadhayaya and Prof. Kennedy (Sept 2014). Awarded a Amazon AWS Machine Learning Grant from Amazon (~$5K, March 2014). Won 2nd prize for iGlobe in the university category at the NASA World Wind Europa Challenge (August 2014). Spent summer as a mentor for The Eric & Wendy Schmidt Data Science for Social Good Fellowship at University of Chicago. 2015 fellowship applications opening on November 1, 2014. Upcoming Events Giving an invited talk on Anomaly Detection at the 5th International Program on Information Assurance and Management on August 31st. Organizing the 5th ACM BigSpatial workshop in conjunction with ACM GIS on October 31st, 2016. Gave a tutorial talk on Machine Learning as part of the CDSE Days, 2016 Gave an invited talk at the 2015 International Indian Statistical Association Conference this December. Conferences I am attending this fall: IEEE ICDM , IEEE Big Data , and ACM GIS . Organizing the 4th ACM BigSpatial workshop in conjunction with ACM GIS on November 3rd, 2015. WNY Civic Hackathon on October 10 at d!G Buffalo. Speaking at the GDG DevFest Buffalo 2015 Speaking at the 4th International Program on Information Assurance and Management Attending the 2015 SIAM Data Mining Conference Speaking at the 36th International Symposium on Remote Sensing of Environment in the Data and Information Systems and Spatial Data Infrastructures session. 
