 Skip to main content 3D Interaction Group Main menu Home News Projects Videos People Publications You are here Home Doug A. Bowman Primary tabs View (active tab) Publications Track Contact Alumni Collaborators PI Department: Computer Science Areas of Interest: 3D-Interaction Center for Human Computer Interaction Human Computer Interaction Immersive Environments Usability Engineering Curriculum Vita (PDF) About Me: Doug A. Bowman is the Frank J. Maher Professor of Computer Science and Director of the Center for Human-Computer Interaction at Virginia Tech . He is the principal investigator of the 3D Interaction Group , focusing on the topics of three-dimensional user interface design and the benefits of immersion in virtual environments. Dr. Bowman is one of the co-authors of 3D User Interfaces: Theory and Practice . He has served in many roles for the IEEE Virtual Reality Conference , including program chair, general chair, and steeering committee chair. He also co-founded the IEEE Symposium on 3D User Interfaces (now part of IEEE VR). He received a CAREER award from the National Science Foundation for his work on 3D Interaction, and has been named an ACM Distinguished Scientist. He received the Technical Achievement award from the IEEE Visualization and Graphics Technical Committee in 2014. His undergraduate degree in mathematics and computer science is from Emory University , and he received his M.S. and Ph.D. in computer science from the Georgia Institute of Technology . 3D User Interfaces: Theory and Practice By Joseph LaViola, Ernst Kruijff, Ryan McMahan, Doug Bowman, and Ivan Poupyrev Contact information: Doug Bowman Dept. of Computer Science, Virginia Tech 2202 Kraft Dr. Blacksburg, VA 24060 USA bowman@vt.edu Visitors Projects Glanceable AR Save the Space Elevator Recent Highlighted 3DI Group Videos Narrative Driven Redirected Walking in VR Adaptive Workspaces for Augmented Reality Model-Free Marking in Augmented Reality Force Push: Exploring Expressive Gesture-to-Force Mapping Learning Immunology in IVR: A Story of Neutrophils Cell-Based Redirection Evaluation of locomotion with the Virtuix Omni MyoText - Typing with the Myo Armband Designing Effective Travel Techniques with the Leap Come Here - a Bare Hand Selection and Manipulation Technique Can Increasing Interaction Fidelity be Harmful? Virtual Reality Knowledgebase MobileAR for Scaffolding Historical Inquiry Learning Immersive Vis and 3D Interaction for Volume Data Analysis VR for Sport Anxiety Migration of manipulation techniques Organic 3D Modeling DARPA RC Team ViGIR VIGOR: Visceral Intense Gaming of Opposing Realms Llamas vs Kiwis Pixelbending Extreme Jump Trainer Novel 3D Interaction Techniques for Analyzing Volume Data Building blocks: a novel metaphor for solving 3D puzzles Body gesture gaming with collaborative navigation 3D user interface with consumer level products Evaluating Immersive Military Training Systems Progressive refinement for 3D selection Immersive Volume Data Visualization C-OLiVE: Impact of group interaction on learning in VEs Novel interactions with fabric: Fabric3D Collaborative Navigation in Virtual Search and Rescue Immersive Virtual Human Exploration of Space Learning with Locations in VR Interaction with Multi-Displays and Large Displays VEs for mine safety training Multi-Scale Navigation Techniques Contextualized Videos in 3D Building Security Surveillance AR Simulation in VR Spatial Collaboration Home Design Tools Information-Rich Virtual Environments Trauma Room Simulation Benefits of Immersion Direct Pointing at Distance: Models and Techniques rapMenu 2012 Virginia Tech site based on andromeda theme Log in using CAS Username * Enter your 3D Interaction Group username. Password * Enter the password that accompanies your username. contact webmaster 
