 Wu FENG More formally: Wu-chun Feng Home Bio Research Publications Talks Teaching Service News Videos Research Sites SyNeRGy Lab SEEC Center The Green500 List mpiBLAST Supercomputing in Small Spaces MyVICE @ VT Hokiespeed CHREC Compute the Cure Biocomputing Cloud Commercials: Our modest initial efforts towards computing a cure for cancer in the cloud. Profiles Google Scholar Contact Office: Torgersen Hall 2050 620 Drillfield Drive (Alumni Mall) Blacksburg, VA. 24061. [ map ] Phone: (540) 231-1192 Fax: (540) 231-9218 Email: feng [at] cs.vt.edu Wu FENG Director SyNeRGy Laboratory Professor Department of Computer Science Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering Health Sciences Other Affiliations Center for High-Performance Reconfigurable Computing (CHREC) Wireless @ VT Virginia Bioinformatics Institute (VBI) Research Interests My interests lie broadly at the synergistic intersection of computer architecture, systems software and middleware, and applications software. Most recently, my research has dealt with high-performance networking protocols, dynamic multicore scheduling, accelerator-based computing for bioinformatics, virtual computing, power-aware computing, and bioinformatics in general. I joined Virginia Tech in 2006 after spending seven years at Los Alamos National Laboratory, operated by the University of California. I am the recipient of three Best Paper Awards in human-computer interaction, high-performance networking, and bioinformatics, respectively, and three R&D 100 Awards in green supercomputing, high-speed networking, and bioinformatics, respectively. I lead the SyNeRGy Laboratory as well as four grassroots projects: The Green500 List : A ranking of the most energy-efficient supercomputers in the world. mpiBLAST : An open-source, parallel implementation of NCBI BLAST. Supercomputing in Small Spaces : Green supercomputing, i.e., low-power and power-aware supercomputing. MyVICE : A platform to simplify delivery of education and create engaging and "kid-friendly" curriculum in support of STEM. 2017 Wu-chun Feng | Template by styleshout Home | CSS 
