 home | bio | research | teaching | publications | service aisling kelliher Aisling Kelliher is an Associate Professor in the Computer Science Department at Virginia Tech, where she also has a joint appointment in the Institute for Creativity, Arts, and Technology and the School of Visual Art. She co-leads the Interactive Neurorehabilitation Lab at VT with Dr. Thanassis Rikakis . latest news Together with a fabulous group of collaborators, Aisling will be running a studio at ACM TEI 2019 entitled "Critical Materiality: creating toolkits and methods for engaging materiality in HCI". She will also be presenting two work in progress papers at TEI: "Designing modular rehabilitation objects for interactive therapy in the home" and "Multisensory Design Probe: An Approach for Reducing Technostress" On November 28, she gave a keynote presentation at the Advancing the Human Condition Symposium at Virginia Tech Aisling was one of three keynote speakers at the International Conference on Entertainment Computing , which was held in Poznan, Poland, Sep 17 - 20, 2018. In July 2018, the INR team presented their poster "A Machine Learning Approach for the Quantitative Assessment of the Upper Extremity Movement in Stroke Survivors" at the first conference on Progress in Clinical Motor Control: Neurorehabilitation Her co-authored article on Progressive cyber-human intelligence for social good was published in interactions25, 4 (June 2018), 52-56. In June, Aisling led a Conversation panel at the Design Research Society conference on "Tackling artificial intelligence as a design material" Also in June, the INR team presented their latest paper "Semi-automated home-based therapy for the upper extremity of stoke survivors" at the PETRA conference in Corfu, Greece. In May, Aisling was awarded a $20,000 grant to collaborate with Akshay Sharma on designing assistive homebased technologies for older adults Aisling presented a short paper at ACM SIGCHI in April about a fun design study she created using agony aunt letters as prompts. In March, Aisling and Barbara Barry (Mayo Clinic) presented their paper on Designing Therapeutic Experiences with AI in Mind at the AAAI 2018 Symposium, Designing the User Experience of Artificial Intelligence. As the regular technical correspondent on Culture File , an Irish national radio show, Aisling has discussed a diverse array of subjects including recent interviews with host Luke Clancy about Plotting the future of transport and sex at CES 2019, Mental Health Assessing AIs , Computing within limits, and What exactly is wrong with Artificial Intelligence? , Oct 20, 2017 Listen to a selection of some recent shows below! select recent and forthcoming publications A. Kelliher, A. Gibson, E. Bottlesen, E. Coe. (2019). Designing modular rehabilitation objects for interactive therapy in the home, forthcoming at ACM TEI '19, Tempe Arizona, March 17 - 20, 2019 A. Behbahani, W. Lages, A. Kelliher (2019). Multisensory Design Probe: An Approach for Reducing Technostress, forthcoming at ACM TEI '19, Tempe Arizona, March 17 - 20, 2019 T. Rikakis, A. Kelliher, J. Choi, H. Sundaram. (2018). Progressive cyber-human intelligence for social good .Interactions25, 4 (June 2018), 52-56. T. Rikakis, A. Kelliher, J. Choi, JB. Huang, K. Kitani, S. Zilevu, and S. Wolf. (2018). Semi-automated home-based therapy for the upper extremity of stoke survivors ,ACM PETRA 2018, June 26 28, Corfu, Greece A. Kelliher, B. Barry, J. Berzowska, N. OMurch, & A. Smeaton. (2018). Beyond black boxes: tackling artificial intelligence as a design material , Conversation Workshop at DRS, June 25 28, 2018, Limerick, Ireland. A. Kelliher. (2018). Learning from Lonely Hearts: Using Advice Columns in User Centered Design Education , (2018) in proceedings of SIGCHI, April 21 - 26, Montreal, Canada. 
