 William D McQuain Senior Instructor, Department of Computer Science Contact Info Office: McBryde 634 E-mail: wmcquain@cs.vt.edu Phone: (540) 231-5605 Spring 2019 Schedule Office hours: MTWR 10:30 - 12:30, and by appointment The Tech Christmas Story Current Teaching Spring 2019 CS 2505 Computer Organization I CS 2506 Computer Organization II Current Teaching-related Activities Curator: Electronic Submission Management Environment Marker: Partial-credit Evaluation for Opscan Assignments GradeReport: Custom Individual Grade Reports Extracurricular Activities My real extra-curricular enjoyment lies in woodworking. This probably goes back to the Brooks quote below. Here are a few of my completed projects. Platform bed - I designed and built this in 1982, while I was working at LSU. It's simple joinery of redwood 4x4 and 2x4 stock, held together with carriage bolts for easy disassembly and moving (I was driving a Ford Fiesta in those days). Fish puzzle - this took about 4 hours to cut, based on a pattern from Wood magazine. It was my first major piece of work using a scroll saw and aniline dyes. Hyperbolic candlesticks - these were a neat little bandsaw project using cherry wood. The cutting took only about 20 minutes apiece; the sanding and final shaping took longer. Potting bench - a more recent project, a modified implementation of a pattern from Wood magazine. This probably took 80 hours, spread over about two months during the summer. The wood is all cypress; the top is sheathed in galvanized steel. Crib V0 and V1 - cherry and walnut crib for our first grandson (and later our second). Toddler car - a toy for our first grandson, now possessed by our granddaughter. Mostly made from bloodwood (Brosimum paraense), with ping-pong balls trapped in the wheel cages just for fun. Cri b II - figured ash and a bit of curly maple, for our third grandson (and later our first granddaughter) (crib is done, he's under construction in this one) Shaker Inspired Bed - figured cherry, with a bit of walnut and a bit of ash. This took several years from design, wood acquisition and rough milling, breaking some tools, and final tuning. The interesting thing was doing this in a 12x16 shop when the side rails are about 7 feet long. First is the sheer joy of making things. As the child delights in his mud pie, so the adult enjoys building things, especially things of his own design. Second is the pleasure of making things that are useful to other people. Deep within, we want others to use our work and to find it helpful. Third is the fascination of fashioning complex puzzle-like objects of interlocking moving parts and watching them work in subtle cycles, playing out the consequences of principles built in from the beginning. Fourth is the joy of always learning. In one way or another, the problem is ever new, and its solver learns something. Fred Brooks on "Why is Programming Fun? The basic truths in all teachings of mankind are alike and amount to one common thing: to find your way to the thing you feel when you love dearly, or when you create, or when you build your home, or when you give birth to your children, or when you look at the stars at night. Wilhelm Reich The soul is dyed the color of its thoughts. Think only on those things that are in line with your principles and can bear the full light of day. The content of your character is your choice. Day by day, what you choose, what you think, and what you do is who you become. Your integrity is your destiny...it is the light that guides your way. Heraclitus Last updated: Tuesday, January 22, 2019 
