 Home Research Publications Research group Software Collaborators Teaching News T. M. Murali Professor Dept. of Computer Science Virginia Tech murali at cs dot vt dot edu (540) 231-8534 (phone) (540) 231-6075 (fax) 2160B Torgerson Hall (office address) 114 McBryde Hall (mailing address) 225 Stanger St (mailing address) Blacksburg VA 24061 I am a Professor in the Department of Computer Science at Virginia Tech . I co-direct the ICTAS Center for Systems Biology of Engineered Tissues . The goal of the center is to exploit the natural synergy between systems biology and tissue engineering and to define a synthesis of these fields. I am the associate director for the Computational Tissue Engineering interdisciplinary graduate education program. I am a core faculty member in the Virginia Tech-Wake Forest School of Biomedical Engineering and Sciences . I am also affiliated with the Interdisciplinary Ph.D. Program in Genetics, Bioinformatics, and Computational Biology . I joined Virginia Tech in 2003 as an Assistant Professor. From 2001 to 2003, I was a Senior Research Associate in the Bioinformatics Programme at Boston University , where I worked with Simon Kasif . Before joining Boston University, I worked at Compaq 's Cambridge Research Lab. Till July 1999, I was a post-doc in the Computer Science Department at Stanford University . I worked with Leo Guibas and Jean-Claude Latombe on problems arising in computational geometry, computer graphics , and robotics . In particular, I was working on the Tactical Mobile Robots project. Before I came to Stanford, I was a Ph.D. student at the Department of Computer Science at Brown University . From July 1993 to August 1998, I was a visiting scholar at the Department of Computer Science at Duke University , where my advisor Jeff Vitter moved from Brown University. I was a member of the Center for Geometric Computing at Duke. Before I started my graduate studies at Brown in 1991, I spent four years at the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IITM) getting a Bachelor of Technology degree in Computer Science and Engineering . My last two years in high school were spent at the pride of Luz Circle, Vidya Mandir , Madras. In my research , I focus on problems in computational systems biology. Currently, I am working in the area of cellular response networks and their building blocks ( network legos ), gene function prediction ( GAIN , Art , MENGO ), host-pathogen protein-protein interactions ( prediction , landscape ) biclustering algorithms and their applications ( xMotif , visualisation , XcisClique , Arabidopsis CO2 , RankGene ), and conserved protein interaction modules ( GraphHopper ). I am also interested in the problem of identifying ligand migration pathways in proteins such as myoglobin . In previous research, I studied problems in computational geometry , especially those motivated by applications in computer graphics , robotics , and geographic information systems . In my Ph.D. thesis , I studied the problem of hidden-surface removal . T. M. Murali (murali at cs DOT vt DOT edu) 
