 Search Primary Menu Skip to content Home News People Steve Harrison Deborah Tatar Whitney Bortz Aakash Gautam Md Mazharul Islam Anamary Leal Michael Stewart Javier Tibau Melanie Tramell Current Projects Togetherness Phenomena of Interest Education and Technology Argu-Ably Astronomical Proportions Computational Thinking Integrated Computational Thinking Chem+C External Evaluator Documents, Summer 2016 Proto Computational Thinking CritiSearch HCI Design Education 2.0 The Sound of Fractions ThoughtSwap Couples Design Human Malleability Space and Place Mediated Life Media Space media space selected annotated bibliography Domestic Media Spaces Technologies Of Intimate Relationships XFR: eXperiments in the Future of Reading Microcoordination Couples Arguing Attention & Technology Co-Drumming Bibliography Search for: Deborah Tatar DogFacedDeborahEdited TatarGreensAnniversary BritPic TatarEdited This jQuery slider was created with the free EasyRotator for WordPress plugin from DWUser.com. OK Rotator powered by EasyRotator for WordPress , a free and easy jQuery slider builder from DWUser.com. Please enable JavaScript to view. Which of these pictures LIES about Dr. Tatar and which shows the TRUTH? What TRUTH? Deborah Tatar is Professor of Computer Science and, by courtesy, Psychology at Virginia Tech, where she is also a member of the Center for Human-Computer Interaction, the Program for Women and Gender Studies, a Fellow of the Institute for Creativity, the Arts and Technology and Fellow of the Institute on Gerontology. She holds a doctorate in Psychology from Stanford and a bachelors in English and American Literature and Language from Harvard. She spent sixteen years working in industry and industrial research. Establishing accomplishments in Computer Science and related fields include her 1986 LISP textbook and her early CSCW (Computer-Supported Collaborative Work) projects, including her analysis of the Xerox PARC Colab project. Much of her work focuses on the design of multi-user face-to-face systems, especially those designed to fit into and improve classroom interactions. This interest dovetails with an interest in the design of technologies as background, the notion of zensign (that what is left out can be as important as what is put into a user interface), phenomena of sharing and human-attention. She really cares about how peoples images of themselves are shaped by their interactions with technology. Here is a link to the Third Lab website . As of Sept. 2015, we have an exciting new project in the area of Integrated Computational Thinking ! Truly exciting is the three minute video which explains the ideas in non-academic terms. Here is an interesting thought, from Jim Holts Why Does the World Exist?, LiveRight Press, 2012, p. 126: You cant give a once and for all definition of what an explanation is, Deutsch said. In fact, important explanatory advances often change the meaning of explanation. My favorite example is the Newtonian-Galilean revolution, which not only brought in new laws of physics, but also altered the very notion of what a physical law is. Previously, laws had been rules stating what happens. Keplers laws, for instance, were about how the planets traveled around the sun in elliptical orbits. Newtons laws were different. They didnt talk about planets or ellipses. Instead, Newtons laws were rules that any such system would obey. Its a different style of explanation, one that hadnt been thought of before, one that wouldnt even have been considered an explanation before. The same kind of explanatory revolution happened a couple of hundred years later with Darwin. Previously, when people asked, Why does this animal have the shape it does? they expected that the answer would cite some property of the shapethat it was efficient, that it was favored by God, and so forth. After Darwin, the answer wasnt about properties of the shape, but about how that shape had come into existence by evolution. Again, its a different style of explanation. Here is a link to the slides for a talk she gave in the CS forum in Fall, 2015 called the The Next Ten Years: Designing For Equity And Inclusion . Heres a link to a c.v. (no promises about how current) . In fact, very very out-of-date. Here is a link to an old website . Leave a Reply Cancel reply 1+1=3 Search for: Recent Posts What Ive Been Reading Tatar speaks at March for Science New Tatar blog post: the Receptionist WORKSHOP: What Comes After CHI? People, Systems and Information Third Lab/Chem+C project in VT news! ACM Interactions Blog Morning greetings in a Bangladeshi way: Walking, greeting, and technology Automatizing the power grid Making the child-computer interaction field grow up? SketchBlog #1: The rise and rise of the sketchnote Being an HCI researcher working with refugees What people see versus what people do: Some thoughts on the cover story on visualizations Values tensions in academia: An exploration within the HCI community Reflecting on the design-culture connection in HCI and HCI4D apropos of Interact 2017 field trips Fair technology Material interaction design Powered by WordPress | Designed by Nuvio Templates About Rotator...
