 Universal Access Toggle Universal Access Close Universal Access dialog Universal Access Options Skip to main content Report a barrier Turn link underline On Off Apply Visit Give Shop Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Menu Virginia Tech About About Submenu Toggle Facts About Virginia Tech Campus Locations University Leadership InclusiveVT Arts@VirginiaTech Engagement and Outreach History and Traditions Rankings Academics Academics Submenu Toggle Colleges Majors Graduate School Beyond Boundaries Online Learning Libraries Continuing and Professional Education Summer and Winter Sessions Experiential Learning Living-Learning Communities Study Abroad Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Submenu Toggle Cost & Aid Undergraduate Admissions Transfer Admissions International Admissions Veteran Admissions Black College Institute Online Programs Upload Your Video Campus Life Campus Life Submenu Toggle Discover Blacksburg Housing Dining Career and Professional Development Health and Wellness Corps of Cadets Clubs, Organizations, and Involvement Cultural Centers Athletics Research Apply Visit Give Shop Resources for Future Students Current Students Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Alumni Industry and Partners Search Search Submit Home / Privacy Statement / Explore About Academics Admissions & Aid Campus Life Research Current page: Privacy Statement Privacy Statement Virginia Tech has created this privacy statement in order to demonstrate our firm commitment to privacy. The following discloses the information gathering and dissemination practices for this Web page: www.vt.edu. Information Automatically Logged The server collects the IP address, date, time, page accessed, browser type, and the referring page if present. We use your IP address to help diagnose problems with our server and to administer our Web page. The date and time are used to track the load on the server and peak usage times. We record the browser type to monitor market penetration of various web browsers so we can better determine what Internet technologies we may utilize in the design of our pages. We use page referrer data--that is, information about the web page that pointed you to our page--to determine to what extent our page is referenced by other resources on the web. These data may be used to preserve the integrity of our computing resources. Logging of Link Traversal The Virginia Tech website logs all clicks on links within pages in order to assist us in determining the popularity of content and the various navigation methods used to find information. No personally identifiable information is recorded; only the time and date, and the links used. Use of Cookies The Virginia Tech home page issues and reads cookies to track any customization options you may have selected. These include what links were activated during a user's time on a website. Personal Information This Web page does not request any personal information or collect any information that personally identifies you or allows you to be personally contacted. Since we do not collect any personal information on this Web site, we do not share any personal information with any third parties nor do we use any personal information for any purposes. Links to Virginia Tech Pages This site contains links to other Virginia Tech pages. The privacy practices of other pages may vary with the purposes of the page. Consult the privacy statement on each page. External Links This site contains links to other sites. Virginia Tech is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such Web sites. Security This site has security measures in place to protect the loss, misuse, and alteration of the information under our control. Log file access is restricted to system administrators while stored on the server. Log files are rotated regularly and archived in a secure location. User and password information, if requested, is encrypted before it is transmitted across the network. Users should also consult Virginia Tech's policy on Acceptable Use . (PDF) Virginia Tech complies with all statutory and legal requirements with respect to access to information. Contacting the Website If you have any questions about this privacy statement, the practices of this site, or your dealings with this Web site, you can contact: askvt@vt.edu . Get Directions See All Locations University Status Contact Virginia Tech Privacy Policy Acceptable Use We Remember University Libraries Accessibility Consumer Information Stop Abuse Policies Equal Opportunity WVTF University Bookstore Jobs at Virginia Tech 2019 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved. Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked In Pintrest YouTube 
