 Toggle navigation Home Pubs Students Teaching Service Awards/Funding Press About I am a faculty at Stony Brook University. My students and I work on topics in the intersection of networking and systems, with a focus on smartphones and wearable devices. To learn more about our research, see the NetSys Lab Website . Recent News Thrilled to receive the VMWare Early Career Faculty Grant Selected as one of the N2Women Rising Stars in Computer Networking and Communications Our paper on "Impact of Device Parameters on QoE" accepted at IMC 2018. Congratulations to Mallesh. Co-chaired the IMC Shadow PC meeting with over 60 PhD students. We will release a report shortly, but it was an enlightening and refreshing experience to see graduate students well-trained for the next generation of reviewing. Excited to be serving as a Vice General Chair for Mobicom 19 . Submit your best work Jian's paper on Ultra Low Power Screen interactions conditionally accepted at UIST 2018. Congratulations to everyone. Four students are off on internships summer 2018: Santiago->Akamai, Conor->IBM Research, Qingqing->Microsoft Reserch, and Yi->Brave Chaired the HotMobile 2018 Program Committee. Was a great workshop. We released a video of UIWear here . Jian Xu will be presented UIWear at Mobicom on October 19th. Received funding from Google Chrome for designing new Web QoE metrics using gaze, with Samir Das. Received two NSF awards with my Co-PIs, one on using gaze tracking for Web performance and the other on extending smartphone UIs to wearables UIWear accepted at Mobicom 2017. Congratulations to Jian and Qingqing! The camera-ready NSDI paper on Webgaze is out! . All data, gaze tracks, and videos of Webgaze performance are available on the Webgaze website . An article about PrIA appeared in the MIT Technology Review , was featured in the Stony Brook News (starts at 5.13), and Publico's technology newsletter (in Portuguese). A position paper on PrIA accepted at HotMobile. Recon paper accepted at Sigmetrics 2017. Congratulations to Yi Cao and Javad Nejati. WebGaze paper accepted at NSDI 2017. Congratulations to Conor Kelton and Jihoon Ryoo. Stay tuned for our data release. More News. 
