 College of Engineering and Applied Sciences College of Engineering and Applied Sciences Members Only Area Department of Computer Science Menu Home About Us Chair's Message Mission and Program Objectives Why CS @ SBU Rankings Distinguished Lecture Series (DLS) News & Events Career Opportunities CS Intranet Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate CSE/ISE Program Undergraduate Honors Program Accelerated BS/MS Program Graduate Program Application FAQs Assistantships Scholarships People Faculty Graduate Students Staff Alumni Awards Research Highlights Affiliations Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Computer Science Policies Home People Faculty Barbara Chapman Barbara Chapman Back to Faculty Directory Barbara Chapman Professor Institute for Computational Science IACS building L158 Stony Brook, NY 11794-5250 Phone: (631) 632-2351 Email: chapman@cs.stonybrook.edu Interests Programming Models for Parallel Computing and Scalable Machine Learning; Compiler Technology; High Performance Computing; Application Development Tools. For more information, visit our website: https://you.stonybrook.edu/exascallab/ Biography Dr. Chapman is a Professor of Applied Mathematics and Statistics, and of Computer Science, at Stony Brook University, where she is affiliated with the Institute for Advanced Computational Science. She also directs Computer Science and Mathematics Research at Brookhaven National Laboratory. Dr. Chapman has performed research on parallel programming interfaces and the related implementation technology for over 20 years and has moreover engaged in efforts to develop community standards for parallel programming, including OpenMP, OpenACC and OpenSHMEM. Her research group created the state-of-the-art OpenUH compiler that enabled practical experimentation with parallel language extensions and the corresponding implementation techniques. The group also created a reference implementation of the library-based OpenSHMEM programming interface. Dr. Chapman has co-authored over 200 papers and two books. She obtained a B.Sc. with 1st Class Honours in Mathematics from the University of Canterbury and a Ph.D. in Computer Science from Queens University of Belfast. Research Much of Dr. Chapman's current research is focused on OpenMP, a recent industry standard for shared memory parallel programming that has been broadly accepted by the computing community. More details and publications can be found here . Faculty Graduate Students Staff Alumni Awards Department of Computer Science, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY 11794-2424 631-632-8470 or 631-632-8471 Stony Brook University Home Page | SOLAR close
