 Arie E. Kaufman Research Interests o Computer Graphics o Visualization o User Interfaces o Virtual Reality o Multimedia o Computer Architecture You can find out more about my research projects by browsing the Visualization Lab pages. There you will find information about VolVis our freely distributed volume visualization system; Cube our special-purpose volume rendering architecture; PVR our parallel volume rendering package; 3D Virtual Colonoscopy our flythrough navigations through the colon; Volume Graphics our approach to support conventional computer graphics using volumetric primitives; Flight Simulation our volume based real-time retargeting system; Volume Deformation our physically-based volume deformation approach; Amorphous Phenomena and Urban Security our accelerated lattice-based simulation and visualization of amorphous phenomena; Stony Brook Visual Computing Cluster our state-of-the-art GPU and volume rendering cluster; and others . Address Arie E. Kaufman, Distinguished Professor and Chairman Department of Computer Science Stony Brook University (SUNY) Stony Brook , NY 11794-4400 , USA Email Short Biography Arie E. Kaufman is a Distinguished Professor and Chair of the Computer Science Department , the Director of the Center of Visual Computing (CVC) , the Chief Scientist of the Center of Excellence in Wireless and Information Technology (CEWIT) , and a Distinguished Professor of Radiology at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. (SBU). He joined the faculty at SBU in 1985 and was appointed Chair in 1999. He also held posts at the Hebrew University , Tel-Aviv University , Florida International University , Ben-Gurion University , and Columbia University . Kaufman was internationally recognized for his contributions to information technology and specifically to visualization and graphics. He was elected to the highest level of a Fellow of IEEE "for contributions to and leadership in visualization and computer graphics," an ACM Fellow "for seminal contributions to and leadership in visualization, especially in volume visualization and its applications," and received the prestigious IEEE Visualization Career Award for seminal work in the theory and practice of volume visualization." Kaufman also received the 1995 IEEE Outstanding Contribution Award, 1998 ACM Service Award, 1999 IEEE Computer Society's Meritorious Service Award, 2002 State of New York Entrepreneur Award , 2004 IEEE Harold Wheeler Award , and 2005 State of New York Innovative Research Award . He is a member of the European Academy of Sciences . Kaufman has conducted research for over 40 years in visualization, graphics, virtual reality, user interfaces, multimedia, and their applications, especially in biomedicine. He has published extensively totaling in excess of 300 refereed papers, books, and book chapters , more than 250 conference presentations and non-refereed manuscripts, and has been awarded/filed more than 40 patents, most of which have been licensed. He has been a principal/co-principal investigator on more than 100 research grants. His work has been featured in numerous media communications, including Science, New York Times, U.S. News & World Report, Business Week, Wall Street Journal, Saturday Evening Post, PC Week, Good Morning America , Fox TV and Newsday . Kaufman has made significant research breakthroughs and cutting-edge inventions, including: Developing 3D Virtual Colonoscopy , a technique for colon cancer screening that has been licensed, FDA approved, commercialized, and has already saved thousands of lives. Developing the Cube hardware architectures for real-time volume rendering, which were licensed and commercialized as the VolumePro PC Board, enabling 3D medical imaging on PCs. Developing real-time simulation and visualization of flow , especially for airborne dispersion in rural and urban environments , supporting battlefield training and homeland security. Pioneering the use of Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) and GPU-clusters, especially for accelerating simulation and visualization of flow. Developing the Reality Deck, a 1.5 Billion-pixel immersive display which is the largest resolution immersive visualization facility ever built, enabling visual analytics of big data. Leading and pioneering the area and technologies of Volume Visualization, enabling the interactive display of 3D data. Compiling the first manuscript on Volume Visualization (1991). Developing comprehensive volume visualization software, VolVis, with an installed base of over 5,000. It has been licensed and formed the basis for many of the state-of-the-art volume visualization software. Pioneering the area and technologies of Volume Graphics, which were licensed and used in one of the first flight simulators. Kaufman's service to the visualization/graphics community has been very significant. He was the founding Editor-in-Chief of IEEE Transaction on Visualization and Computer Graphics (TVCG) , 1995-1998. He has been the co-founder, papers/program co-chair, and member of the steering committee of IEEE Visualization Conference series; co-founder/chair of Volume Graphics Workshop series; co-Chair for Eurographics /SIGGRAPH Graphics Hardware Workshops , the Papers/Program co-Chair for ACM Volume Visualization Symposia . He previously chaired and is currently a director of IEEE CS Technical Committee on Visualization and Graphics . He has served on over 100 program or technical committees. He received a BS in Mathematics and Physics from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem , Israel , in 1969, an MS in Computer Science from the Weizmann Institute of Science , Rehovot , Israel , in 1973, and a PhD in Computer Science from the Ben-Gurion University , Israel , in 1977. Classes Spring 2013 CSE 654 Seminar in Visualization , Wednesdays 10am-12pm (only on intrawww with password ) CSE 523/4 MS Projects (details only on intrawww ) 
