 Home Projects People Publications Teaching Bio Play B-Board Klaus Mueller Professor Director, Visual Analytics and Imaging (VAI) Lab Liaison, SUNY Korea CS Program Center for Visual Computing Computer Science Department Stony Brook University - State University of New York mueller{remove_this}@cs.stonybrook.edu - News - News - News - Joined the faculty of the Stony Brook Institute for Advanced Computational Science (IACS) and its NSF-funded STRIDE program If you are a graduate student and interested in translating science into informed decision and policy-making consider joining STRDE Recent papers published or accepted in 2018: Build attribute hierarchies with ease -- use the Taxonomizer , soon to be published in IEEE Trans. Vis and Computer Graphics. by S. Mahmood and K. Mueller Guest Editorial in IEEE Trans. on Medical Imaging : Image Reconstruction Is a New Frontier of Machine Learning with G. Wang, J. Fessler, and J.C. Ye Visual aids for high performance code developers: PUMA-V: Optimizing Parallel Code Performance Through Interactive Visualization soon in IEEE CG&A IEEE Trans on Comp. Imaging : A GPU-Accelerated ... Scheme for ... ICD Optimization in Statistical Iterative CT Reconstruction by S. Ha and K. Mueller ACM Trans.on Intelligent Systems and Technology Analytics of Heterogeneous Data using Hypergraph Learning by C. Xie. W. Xu, and K. Mueller An update to our 2016 SPIE Medical Imaging paper: Metal Artifact Reduction in Cone-Beam X-Ray CT via Ray Profile Correction by S. Ha and K. Mueller Blowing things up: An Exploded View Paradigm to Disambiguate Scatterplots by S. Mahmood and K. Mueller in Computers & Graphics To be presented at IEEE VIS 2018: Best paper runner-up: A Visual Analytics Framework for the Detection of Anomalous Call Stack Trees".. IEEE TVGC by C. Xie, W. Xu, and K. Mueller ColorMapND: A Data-Driven Approach and Tool for Mapping Multivariate Data to Color IEEE TVCG by S. Cheng, W. Xu,and K.Mueller Gave a talk recently on How to Successfully Apply to US Universities . Curious how to do it? Click here. Sungsoo scored a paper in IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging! A Look-Up Table-Based Ray Integration Framework for 2D/3D Forward and Back-projection in X-ray CT by S. Ha and K. Mueller Current or Recent Courses CSE 332 Introduction to Visualization (undergraduate level) CSE 377 Introduction to Medical Imaging (undergraduate level) CSE 323 Human Computer Interaction (co-taught at graduate level) CSE 564 Visualization and Visual Analytics CSE 590 Data Science Fundamentals (graduate level) CSE 591 GPU Programming (Special Topics course) CSE 577 Medical Imaging (graduate level) CSE 523 Master's Projects (continued as CSE 524) CSE 648 Visual Analytics Seminar (every semester) More... Complete set of courses Short Bio I received a PhD in computer science from The Ohio State University in 1998. I am currently a professor in the Computer Science Department at Stony Brook University and I am also a senior scientist at the Computational Science Initiative at Brookhaven National Lab . From 2012-2015, I served as the founding chair of the Computer Science Department at SUNY Korea and I was also VP for Academic Affairs and Finance at SUNY Korea for two years. My current research interests are visual analytics, data science, medical imaging, and high-performance computing. I won the US National Science Foundation Early Career award in 2001, the SUNY Chancellor Award for Excellence in Scholarship and Creative Activity in 2011, and the Meritorious Service Certificate and the Golden Core Award of the IEEE Computer Society in 2016. In 2018 I was inducted into the US National Academy of Inventors. To date, I have authored more than 170 peer-reviewed journal and conference papers, which have been cited more than 8,500 times. I am a frequent speaker at international conferences, have organized or participated in 18 tutorials on various topics, chaired the IEEE Visualization Conference in 2009, and was the elected chair of the IEEE Technical Committee on Visualization and Computer Graphics (VGTC) from 2012-2015. I currently serve as the Editor-in-Chief of IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics . I am a senior member of the IEEE. (Please see here for a bio in the third person). Here's a very brief overview on some of the projects. For more detailed info, visit the corresponding linked project pages (also accessible from this shortcut page). Medical imaging. Here we use programmable commodity graphics hardware boards (GPUs) to accelerate a wide variety of 3D computer tomographic (CT) reconstruction algorithms. So far we have achieved speed-ups of 1-2 orders of magnitude, without significant loss in reconstruction quality. Our RapidCT system enables fast, accelerated 3D reconstruction in diagnostic imaging, radio-therapy applications, surgery planning, electron microscopy, and others, at a fraction of the cost of proprietary devices. Related projects are the iterative 3D reconstruction from data acquired with X-ray CT scanners at low radiation doses (known as low-dose CT), with transmission ultrasound for breast mammography, data obtained from MV-CT and proton-CT scanners for the treatment of cancer, projections obtained via mobile X-ray source/detector pairs, as well as functional imaging applications, including MRI, functional MRI, SPECT, and PET. Scientific, medical, and information visualization. This area embraces a wide gamut of projects. In volume visualization , we are concerned with algorithms and techniques for volume rendering (point-based and ray-based) on regular as well as irregular grids, fundamental research on interpolation filters and data grids , GPU accelerated rendering, rendering of multi-modal and time-varying datasets, feature-centric and illustrative visualization, intuitive user interfaces, modeling with volumetric datasets (examples: ablation, melting), volume graphics and rendering with volumetric effects (examples: radiosity, shadows), image-based volume rendering, and others. In information visualization , we are working on the development of frameworks for the visualization of large, high-dimensional, multi-valued datasets. Color, texture, details, points. Current projects include the example-based colorization of images and volumes, rule-based (expert) systems for color design, semantic and infinite zooms enabled by texture synthesis, size- and angle-preserving texturing of arbitrary objects, and point-based surface rendering (adding special effects, such as motion blur/hints), and interactive fly-throughs of realistic, large-scale urban environments (virtual Manhattan) at high-levels of detail (less than an inch resolution). These topics are also relevant in the context of illustrative (expressive) data and volume visualization. Visual analytics. Information visualization techniques can be combined with classical and modern data analysis, such as intelligent computing, statistical pattern recognition and machine learning, to yield a more powerful, user-controlled information retrieval. The visual feedback guiding the analytical mining process exploits the unmatched capability of the low-level and high-level human visual system to recognize patterns and derive abstract conclusions from them, possibly setting off another analysis round. We are currently exploiting this relatively new paradigm for the analysis/classification of large, high-dimensional data streams and for the interactive specification of data models, a paradigm we call model-drive visual analytics . In another application we are also working towards a comprehensive visual data mining environment for neuroscientists, called BrainMiner , that will enable a more targeted and experiential derivation of brain functional models from large collections of knowledge and data. Modeling of natural phenomena. We have developed a comprehensive framework for the modeling and simulation of smoke, fire, and general gaseous phenomena, both on surfaces and in 3D space, interacting with static and moving objects. Our approach uses the Lattice-Boltzmann Model (LBM) for fast propagation of these phenomena. The LBM is non-iterative and uses only local operations per grid update of the transient phenomena. It is therefore very attractive for acceleration on GPUs. Current applications are the modeling of gaseous substances in urban (homeland) security scenarios, the simulation of complex heat-originated phenomena for computer graphics, such as heat shimmering, melting, ablation, and smoke, and the simulation of other amorphous phenomena. General purpose computing on programmable graphics hardware (GPGPU). This is a topic related to the above, but not confined to it. We have been using GPUs for various costly numerical simulation tasks (in addition to our GPU acceleration of medical imaging algorithms ), with speedups of 1-2 orders of magnitudes, while being able to use the GPU also to quickly visualize the (intermediate) results. This gives rise to the notion of visual simulation . Face recognition. A few years ago we developed a face recognition technique that tracks small detail in a deforming face (for example, a smile) to derive dynamic information that turns out to be very salient for face recognition. Using this technique, we have been able to distinguish even identical twins. Also known as Klaus Mller (German spelling) http://www3.cs.stonybrook.edu/~mueller 
