 H. Andrew Schwartz Assistant Professor, Computer Science Stony Brook University Principal Investigator, World Well-Being Project , University of Pennsylvania Program Chair, Data Science and Engineering Specialization , Stony Brook University Director, HLAB: Human Language Analysis Beings, Stony Brook University Human Language Analysis Data Science Natural Language Processing Health and Well-Being Computational Linguistics Applied Machine Learning Computational Social Science Lexical Semantics News Publications Teaching Data, Demos, and Code More Press Contact News and Travel March 1, 2018: Atlanta, GA: Featured Speaker ``Human-Centered Natural Language Processing'' at the SPSP Psychology of Language Preconference . Feb 11, 2018: Dubai, UAE: Keynote on ``Population Well-Being Assessment via Social Media'' at the World Government Summit . Aug 14 - 15, 2017: Beijing, China: Talk at International Conference on Educational Data Science and Applications . May 25, 2017: San Diego, CA: Talk on ``Predicting psychological and health outcomes from social media text'' at Computational Tools for Text Mining, Processing, and Analysis . May 3, 2017: Philadelphia, PA: Talk on ``Predicting Medical Diagnoses from Social Media'' at AMIA, iHealth . June 27 - Aug. 5 2016: Baltimore, MD: I will be in Baltimore, co-leading a workshop on Social Media and Mental Health Temporal Analyes at the Jelinek Memorial Summer Workshop . June 6, 2016: Pasco, WA: Faculty Summit on Social Media and Visualization at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Visual Analytics gorup . June 1, 2016: Our work was featured in The New York Times and The Washington Post . January 29, 2016: San Diego, CA: Talk on ``Hypothesis Driven Computational Social Science'' at the Society for Personality and Social Psychology Annual Convention (SPSP-2016). January 7, 2016: Big Island of Hawaii: Talk on ``Predicting Individual Well-Being through the Language of Social Media'' at the Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing, track on Social Media Mining for Public Health Monitoring and Surveillance . November 7, 2015: Orlando, FL: Panel on Digital Media at the American Heart Association Resuscitation Science Symposium . September 11, 2015: College Park, MD: Panel on Social Media data at the FDA - M-CERSI Workshop: It's big, but is it useful? A scientific inquiry into how mobile health and social media data may inform medical product safety . May 31-June 5, 2015: Denver, CO: Long poster on "Extracting Human Temporal Orientation in Facebook Language" and workshop presentation on "The Role of Personality, Age and Gender in Tweeting about Mental Illnesses" at the Conference of the North American Chapter of the Associatino for Computational Linguistics (NAACL-HLT-2015) . May 22, 2015; New York, NY: symposium on "Computational Methods for Linguistic Insights into Personality and Behavior" at the Association for Psychoological Science convention. May 17, 2015; Chicago, Il: Panel on "Exploring Country-level Mortality Rates in the Language of Twitter" at the Computational Social Science Summit . Feb 27, 2015; Long Beach, CA: panel on "Finding Psychological Signal in a Billion Words" at the Society for Personality and Social Psychology Annual Convention . Feb 11, 2015; College Park, MD: talk on "Discovering Psychological and Health Insights from Social Media Language" for the Computational Linguistics and Information Processing group at the University of Maryland. Oct 30, 2014; Beijing: talk / session on social media data and its use for assessing community health at the International Conference on Big Data for Official Statistics . Oct 3, 2014; Baltimore: talk on "Computational Language Analyses for Health and Psychological Discovery" at the Center for Language and Speech Processing at Johns Hopkins. June 27, 2014; Baltimore: poster on "Towards Assessing Changes in Degree of Depression through Facebook" at the ACL 2014 Workshop on Computational Linguistics and Clinical Psychology . June 17, 2014; Mexico City: talk on work of World Well-Being Project at the INEGI / INFOTEC Seminar on Opportunities and Challenges for Big Data Phenomena for Official Information . May 23, 2014; San Francisco: panel on "Big Language Analyses" at the Association for Psychological Science convention. more events... Publications Self-Maintained List Google Scholar Research Gate Teaching Courses Spring 2019: CSE545: Big Data Analytics Spring 2019: CSE392: Topics in CS: Natural Language Processing Fall 2018: Seminar on Advances in NLP Fall 2017: CSE545: Big Data Analytics Fall 2016: CSE545: Big Data Analytics Spring 2016: CSE594: Probability and Statistics for Data Science (Advanced Topic) Spring 2016: ITS102: Social Media Text Annotation and Analysis (Freshmen Research Seminar) Fall 2015: Symposium on Natural Language Processing for Social Science` Fall 2006: COP3330: Object Oriented Programming (University of Central Florida) Mentorship The HLAB: Human Language Analysis Beings Veronica Lynn , PhD Student Mohammadzaman Zamani , PhD Student Youngseo Son, PhD Student Vivek Kulkarni , Previous PhD Student (co-advised with S Skiena; Graduated 2017, Now Postdoc at Stanford) Masoud Rouhizadeh , Previous Postdoc (Now Postdoc at JHU) Data, Demos, and Code Age and Gender demo: Facebook Age and Gender Predictor lexica: Age and Gender Predictive Lexica (see our EMNLP 2014 paper, Developing age and gender predictive lexica over social media .) word clouds: Words Distinguishing Age and Gender in Facebook (see our PLoS-ONE 2013 paper, Personality, Gender, and Age in the Language of Social Media: The Open-Vocabulary Approach .) Personality To be posted Temporal Orientation Code: Differential Language Analysis Feature Worker (an open-vocabulary language analysis infrastructure, primarily in Python) Code: Social Media Tokenizer Happier Fun Tokenizer (An improved version of Christopher Pott's Happy Fun Tokenizing, shared with his permission.) Select Media Coverage New York Magazine: Sciennce of US: Can Angry Tweets Predict Heart-Disease Rates? Wired UK: Study: status update language used to predict Facebook users' age, gender, personality New York Times: Your Personality Type Defined by the Internet Slate: Scientists Used Facebook For the Largest Ever Study of Language and Personality The Huffington Post: Facebook Study Reveals Links Between What You Post And Who You Are Popular Science: The Different Ways Men and Women Talk On Facebook Crowd Research: Characterizing Community Well-Being The Atlantic: Cities: How Twitter Can Predict your Community's Well-being Contact e-mail: has -at- cs [dot] stonybrook . [edu] office: New Computer Science Room 255; 631-632-2459 
