 Steven Skiena Books Teaching Students Data Science Lab Steven Skiena is a Distinguished Teaching Professor of Computer Science at Stony Brook University. He was co-founder and the Chief Science Officer of General Sentiment, a social media and news analytics company. His research interests include algorithm design, data science and their applications to biology. Skiena is the author of several popular books in the fields of algorithms, programming, and data science. The Algorithm Design Manual is widely used as an undergraduate text in algorithms and within the tech industry for job interview preparation. Courses CSE 373/548: Algorithms Fall 2017 and Lecture Slides CSE 392: Programming Challenges Spring 2012 and Lecture Slides CSE 549: Computational Biology Fall 2013 and Lecture Slides CSE 519: Data Science Fall 2017 CSE 691: Computational Finance Fall 2008 and Lecture Slides See More... Research Our Data Science Laboratory studies large-scale text analytics and sentiment analysis. Other interests include computational biology and algorithm design. Our research as received extensive press coverage , including the New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, and National Public Radio. My recent papers can be found at Google Scholar and DBLP . Some older papers are available here . Here find my talks , quotes , and vita Projects Who's Bigger , Ranking people, places, and things according to their fame, quality, or significance. Polyglot , Distributed word representations (word embeddings) have recently contributed to competitive performance in language modeling and several NLP tasks. People Similarity , People similarity is a project evaluating how similar it is between two people See More... Books See More... Distinguished Teaching Professor Computer Science Department Stony Brook University Stony Brook, NY 11794-4400, USA Email: skiena@cs.sunysb.edu Twitter: @StevenSkiena Phone: 631-632-9026 Google Scholar and DBLP Wikipedia YouTube Channels PhD Tree Tweets by @StevenSkiena 
