 Eugene W. Stark (This page best viewed with a browser.) General Information I'm Gene Stark, Professor in the Computer Science Department at the State University of New York at Stony Brook Click here for an audio greeting. Click here for my coordinates (phone, email, etc. ) Click here for a PGP key you can use to send me private E-mail. Get my technical reports . My research interests have traditionally been the general area of programming language theory, having to do particularly with programming language semantics and concurrency theory. I have also worked on specification and verification of distributed algorithms, and I am interested in functional programming languages. I have always been interested in operating systems, and have recently moved toward more serious research in that area. Find out more about my research and technical interests (perennially out-of-date). Find out about some of my personal interests . See my list of Android apps that don't suck . I am also interested in the use of the Internet for genealogical research, and I distribute a shareware program, called GED2HTML , for converting GEDCOM files into HTML for presentation on the web. For eight years (1996-2004) I operated a commercial genealogical information site called GENDEX, which is now defunct. Links to My Current and Past Projects NOTE: Some of these are restricted to Stony Brook access only. Probabilistic I/O Automata project page CARA Infusion Pump project page SAMSON Network Memory Server project page DSM system CVS repository Go to my genealogy page . Things You Can Download Get my technical reports . Download my Distributed Shared Memory facility for FreeBSD. We describe this system in a paper in the 1997 Usenix Technical Conference. Other Pages I Maintain Go to my home page on the Undergraduate Computing Laboratory systems. Go to my CSE160 (Computer Science A: Honors) home page. Go to my CSE260 (Computer Science B: Honors) home page. Go to my CSE219 (Computer Science III) home page. Go to my CSE220 (Systems-level Programming) home page. Go to my CSE230 (C and Unix) home page. Go to my CSE306 (Undergraduate Operating Systems) home page. Go to my CSE307 (Undergraduate Programming Languages) home page. Go to my CSE320 (Systems Fundamentals II) home page. Go to my CSE523/524 (MS project) home page. Go to my CSE526 (Graduate Programming Languages) home page. Go to my CSE540 (Graduate Theory of Computation) home page. Other Related Pages Go to the Computer Science Department Undergraduate Computing Laboratory home page. Go to the Computer Science Department home page. Go to the SUNY at Stony Brook home page. Eugene W. Stark 
