 Home Research Publications Teaching Software About Me I am currently an Assistant Professor at Boston University in the department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and affiliated with the Computer Science department and the Mathematics & Statistics department . Previously, I was at Stony Brook University , Yahoo Research NY, the Toyota Technological Institute at Chicago , the University of Milan , the IDIAP Research Institute , and the University of Genoa . My current research interest is parameter-free machine learning . In particular I am interested in online learning, domain adaptation, and batch/stochastic convex optimization. I manage the Optimization and Machine Learning Lab . CV and Google Scholar profile . Twitter: @bremen79 Blog: parameterfree.wordpress.com News NEW! A paper on the convergence of stochastic gradient descent with adaptive stepsizes by Xiaoyu Li and me has been accepted at AISTATS 2019 . A paper on black-box reductions for parameter-free online learning by Ashok Cutkosky and me has been accepted at COLT 2018 . A paper by Kwang-Sung Jun , me, Rebecca Willett , and Stephen Wright has been accepted in the Electronic Journal of Statistics . A paper on training deep networks without learning rates by me and Tatiana Tommasi has been accepted at NIPS 2017 . NSF funds a joint project between University of Lehigh, Northwestern University and Stony Brook. The focus will be on optimization algorithms for machine learning. I was awarded a Google Research Award to work on Parameter-free Stochastic Minimization of Non-convex Functions. Recent Events NEW! Senior program committee member of IJCAI 2019 . NEW! Area chair of ICML 2019 . NEW! Member of the Program Committee of COLT 2019. NEW! Member of the Senior Program Committee of AISTATS 2019 . Area chair of NIPS 2018 . Co-organizer of the 5th TASK-CV: Transferring and Adapting Source Knowledge in Computer Vision workshop at ECCV 2018 . Co-organizer of the DIMACS/TRIPODS/MOPTA workshop and summer school. Guest editor of the JMLR special issue on Domain Adaptation, Multi-task and Transfer Learning . Tatiana Tommasi and I gave a tutorial on Domain Adaptation and Transfer Learning at ECCV 2014 . Talks in 2019 1/19/19, The Geometric Analysis Approach to AI Workshop at Harvard, Cambridge. 2/23/19, MSR (New England), Cambridge. 5/10/19, New England Machine Learning day at Northeastern University, Boston. 6/19-23/19, Third International Conference on Mathematics of Data Science at CityU, Hong Kong. 6/25-27/19, EcoSta, Taiwan. Old articles on the Italian Press "E adesso Babybot, il robot che impara, aspetta un fratellino (pi intelligente di lui)" , Il Venerd di Repubblica, 23 giugno 2006. "Che bella famiglia sono tutti baby robot" , Il Secolo XIX - 30 luglio 2004. "Sfide finali per gli artisti del mattoncino" ,Corriere della Sera, 17 Giugno 1992. Powered by Free Website Templates 
