 Skip to main content The State University of New York Home Contact Us Research search Department of Biomedical Informatics School of Medicine and College of Engineering and Applied Sciences Home About Us Career Opportunities News & Events Contact Us Directions People Faculty Staff Students Research Research Areas Research Resources Education BMI Graduate Program Overview, Tracks and Degrees Degree Requirements Courses Applications and Admissions BMI Fellowship in Clinical Informatics Overview How to Apply Other Educational Opportunities Salary and Benefits BMI Clinical Informatics Bootcamp Research Experiences for Undergraduates K12 Outreach CSIRE for K12 Students Software QuIP SBU-BMI Github Google Summer of Code Joel Saltz Cherith Professor and Founding Chair, Department of Biomedical Informatics Vice President for Clinical Informatics, Stony Brook Medicine Associate Director, Stony Brook Cancer Center Department of Biomedical Informatics HSC L3-043 Stony Brook, NY 11794 Phone: (631) 638-1420 Website (URL): https://bmi.stonybrookmedicine.edu/people/joel_saltz Email: joel.saltz@stonybrookmedicine.edu INTERESTS Biomedical Informatics, Imaging Informatics, Clinical & Translational Research Informatics and High-End Computing BIOGRAPHY Dr. Joel Saltz is a leader in research on advanced information technologies for large scale data science and biomedical/scientific research. He has developed innovative pathology informatics methods, including: the first published whole slide virtual microscope system; pioneering pathology computer-aided diagnosis techniques; and methods for decomposing pathology images into features and linking those features to cancer omics, response to treatment and outcome. He has broken new ground in big data through development of the filter-stream based DataCutter system, the map-reduce style Active Data Repository and the inspector-executor runtime compiler framework. He has also been an active contributor in clinical informatics, having developed predictive models for hospital readmissions, point of care laboratory testing quality assurance systems, decision support systems for electrophoresis interpretation and graphical user interfaces to support clinical data warehouse queries. Dr. Saltz has been a pioneer in establishing the field of biomedical informatics; he founded and built two highly successful departments of biomedical informatics, one at Ohio State University and one at Emory University. In 2013, he came to Stony Brook as Vice President for Clinical Informatics and Founding Department Chair of Biomedical Informatics to create a living laboratory for biomedical informatics and to create a third unique biomedical informatics department dually housed in the School of Medicine and the College of Engineering. Dr. Saltz is trained both as a computer scientist and as a physician through the MSTP program at Duke University. He has deep experience in computer science, having served on the computer science faculties at Yale University and the University of Maryland. He completed his residency in clinical pathology at Johns Hopkins University and he is a practicing, board-certified clinical pathologist. RESEARCH Dr. Saltz is a leader in research on advanced information technologies for large scale data analytics, biomedical and scientific research. He has developed innovative clinical informatics systems including the first published whole slide virtual microscope system and leading edge clinical data warehouse frameworks. He has spearheaded several multi-disciplinary efforts creating cutting-edge tools and middleware components for the anagement, analysis, and integration of heterogeneous biomedical data. Dr. Saltz broke new ground with middleware systems that target distributed and high-end systems including the filter-stream based DataCutter system, the map-reduce style Active Data Repository and the inspector-executor runtime compiler framework. Dr. Saltz currently leads two major application initiatives. The first is to develop large scale data management and analysis systems integrating omics, Pathology, Radiology and clinical information. His approach consists of closely coordinated efforts in image analysis, machine learning, database design and high end computing. These efforts leverage and extend tools and methods he developed through years of funded projects supported by a wide range of institutes and agencies including NCI, NLM, NIBIB, NSF, DARPA, AFOSR, NASA, DOD and DOE to develop innovative techniques, methodologies, algorithms and software systems to support integrative data analyses, large scale digital microscopy, high-performance computing, data management, and data federation . He targets cloud, cluster, GPU and Leadership Scale platforms. The second focus is to develop data analytic methods that integrate and analyze information from multiple complementary clinical, financial and operational sources with the goal of optimizing quality and efficiency of health care systems and to support population health efforts. Stony Brook Biomedical Informatics serves to integrate academics and innovation into the fabric of operations at Stony Brook Medicine. Our dual goals are to develop innovative algorithms, methods and software and to facilitate the fulfillment of the Stony Brook Medicine mission to deliver world-class, compassionate healthcare to patients. AWARDS AND ACTIVITIES Dr. Saltz led the Biomedical Informatics section of the Atlanta Clinical and Translational Science Award (CTSA), the Emory Center for AIDS Research and the Emory Cancer Target Discovery and Development cooperative grant. During his career, he has participated in 70 grants and contracts, serving as principal investigator on half of those, and has contributed to more than 400 peer-reviewed scholarly publications and presentations. PUBLICATIONS Scholar | NCBI | DBLP | PubMed TEACHING SUMMARY Stony Brook Medicine: CS 595 Topics in Computer Science: Data Analytics Software - Stacks At Emory, Georgia Tech, Ohio State and U Maryland: Graduate seminars in Data Analytics, Graduate seminars in High Performance Computing Biomedical Informatics I and II, Senior undergraduate database course, Senior undergraduate operating systems, Senior undergraduate computer architectures Give us a call (631) 638-2590 Department of Biomedical Informatics Health Science Center Level 3, Room 043 Stony Brook, NY 11794-8322 Stony Brook Medicine Stony Brook University Hospital Stony Brook Children's Hospital Stony Brook Southampton Hospital Long Island State Veterans Home Stony Brook University Directory Careers Newsroom Volunteer Employee Portal Patient Portal Physician Portal Healthcare Professionals Legal/Disclaimer Privacy Policy Notice of Privacy Practices Site Feedback Copyright 2018 Stony Brook Medicine 
