 College of Engineering and Applied Sciences College of Engineering and Applied Sciences Members Only Area Department of Computer Science Menu Home About Us Chair's Message Mission and Program Objectives Why CS @ SBU Rankings Distinguished Lecture Series (DLS) News & Events Career Opportunities CS Intranet Contact Us Admissions Undergraduate CSE/ISE Program Undergraduate Honors Program Accelerated BS/MS Program Graduate Program Application FAQs Assistantships Scholarships People Faculty Graduate Students Staff Alumni Awards Research Highlights Affiliations Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Computer Science Policies Home People Faculty Gregory Zelinsky Gregory Zelinsky Back to Faculty Directory Gregory Zelinsky Professor, Psychology Department of Psychology B-240 Stony Brook University Stony Brook, NY 11794-3760 Phone: (631) 632-7827 Website (URL): http://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/psychology/faculty/faculty_bio_pages/gzelinsky... Email: gregory.Zelinsky@stonybrook.edu Interests Visual Cognition (Attention, Search, Scene Perception, and Visual Working Memory), with Emphasis on The Behavioral and Computational Study of Eye Movements. Biography Gregory J. Zelinsky earned his Ph.D. from Brown University in 1994. Research Gregory Zelinsky's goal is to better understand visual cognition by following two interrelated research paths. First, he monitors and analyzes how people move their eyes as they perform various visual search and visual working memory tasks. He does this in order to obtain an on-line and directly observable measure of how a behavior intimately associated with the selection and accumulation of information (i.e., eye movements) changes in space and time during a task. Second, he attempts to describe this oculomotor behavior in the context of image-based neurocomputational models. These models perform the same task and "see" the same stimuli as human observers, and output a sequence of simulated eye movements that can be compared to human behavior. These comparisons are then used to generate new hypotheses to further test the representations and processes underlying task performance. Teaching Summary N/A Faculty Graduate Students Staff Alumni Awards Department of Computer Science, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY 11794-2424 631-632-8470 or 631-632-8471 Stony Brook University Home Page | SOLAR close
