 kennyjoseph.github.io Home Categories Tags Kenny Joseph I study people with computers Home About Me I am an assistant professor in the CSE Department at the University at Buffalo. In the past, I was a postdoc at the LazerLab at the Network Science Institute at Northeastern University and a fellow at Harvards Institute for Quantitative Social Science . I completed my graduate work in the Societal Computing program in the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University, where I studied under Kathleen Carley in the CASOS lab. My research focuses on obtaining a better understanding of the dynamics and cognitive representations of stereotypes and prejudice, and their interrelationships with sociocultural structure. In my work, I leverage a variety of machine learning/NLP methods, agent-based modeling strategies and socio-cognitive theories. Finally, for those who dont want to click the buttons on the left, my info below: gmail: josephkena twitter: _kenny_joseph github: kennyjoseph Selected Publications, etc. For a full list, Google Scholar page or the (likely slightly out of date) CV . Conference Joseph, K. , Friedland, L., Hobbs, W., Lazar, D. & Tsur, O. (2017). Constance: Modeling Annotation Contexts to Improve Stance Classification. EMNLP 2017 . draft pdf | code & data Joseph, K. , Wei, W., & Carley, K.M. (2017). Girls rule, boys drool: Inferring semantic and affective relationships between identities from text. CSCW 2017 . draft pdf | code & data Joseph, K. & Carley, K.M. (2016). Relating semantic similarity and semantic association to how humans label other people. NLP+CSS, workshop at EMNLP 2016 . draft pdf | code & data Carton, S., Helsby, J., Joseph, K. , Mahmud, A., Park, Y., Walsh, J., Haynes, L., Cody, C., Patterson, E. & Ghani, R. (2016). A Model for Improved Early Intervention to Reduce Adverse Police-Public Interactions. KDD 2016 . draft pdf | code | article link | Selected coverage: ChicagoInno , Chicago Tribune , fivethirtyeight Joseph, K. , Wei, W., & Carley, K. M. (2016). Exploring patterns of identity usage in tweets: a new problem, solution and case study. WWW 2016 . draft pdf | code | article link | data Joseph, K. , & Carley, K. (2015). Culture, Networks, Twitter and foursquare: Testing a Model of Cultural Conversion with Social Media Data. ICWSM 2015 . draft pdf | code | article link Wei, W., Joseph, K. , Lo, W., & Carley, K. M. (2015). A Bayesian Graphical Model to Discover Latent Events from Twitter. ICWSM 2015 . draft pdf | article link Joseph, K. , Tan, C. H., & Carley, K. M. (2012). Beyond Local, Categories and Friends: Clustering foursquare Users with Latent Topics. LBSN 2012 . Best Paper Award . draft pdf | article link Journal Benigni, M., Joseph, K., Carley, K.M. (forthcoming). Covert Network Detection in Social Media: Uncovering the ISIS Supporting Network on Twitter. PLOS One . Joseph, K. , Wei, W., Benigni, M., & Carley, K. M. (2016). A social-event based approach to sentiment analysis of identities and behaviors in text. The Journal of Mathematical Sociology . draft pdf | code | article link Wei, W., Joseph, K. , Liu, H., & Carley, K. M. (2016). Exploring characteristics of suspended users and network stability on Twitter. Social Network Analysis and Mining . article link Joseph, K. , Carley, K. M., & Hong, J. I. (2014). Check-ins in Blau Space: Applying Blaus Macrosociological Theory to Foursquare Check-ins from New York City. ACM Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology . draft pdf | code | article link Joseph, K. , Morgan, G. P., Martin, M. K., & Carley, K. M. (2014). On the Coevolution of Stereotype, Culture, and Social Relationships An Agent-Based Model. Social Science Computer Review . draft pdf | code | article link Non-Peer Reviewed Article in Police Magazine on DSSG 2015 work Tutorials Fred Morstatter, Joseph, K. & Sumeet Kumar. Exploring Public Events Using Social Media Data: Challenges in Extraction, Modeling and Analyzing. SBP 2016. Tutorial Site Selected Presentations Whats next for preventing adverse police/public interactions? 2016 Data Science for Social Good Conference . Latent Cognitive Social Spaces: Theory and Methods for Extracting Prejudice from Text Sunbelt 2016 . A social-event based approach to sentiment analysis of identities and behaviors in text. ASA 2015 . Culture, Networks, Twitter and foursquare: Testing a model of cultural conversion using social media data. Computational Social Science Summit (CSSS 2015) . ``Modeling the Coevolution and Coexistence of Stereotypes, Prejudices and Socio-cultural Structure. CMU Machine Learning and Social Science Seminar . Awards and Distinctions CMU Gelfand Student Service Award . (2015). Presented to students who share time, talent, energy and a passion for learning to make a difference for members of the external community. Data Science for Social Good fellow . (2015). Professional Service Co-organizer , SBP15 Grand Data Challenge Co-organizer SBP16 Grand Data Challenge 2019 with Jekyll . Theme: dbyll by dbtek. 
