 Rong Zhao, Ph.D., MBA Center of Excellence in Wireless and Department of Computer Science Information Technology (CEWIT) Stony Brook University Stony Brook University R&D Park Stony Brook, NY 11794-4400 Stony Brook, NY 11794-6040 631.632.7528 (voice) 631.632.4627 (voice) 631.632.1784 (fax) 631.632.4653 (fax) http://www.cewit.org http://www.cs.stonybrook.edu/~rzhao Rong Zhao is the Director of Software Systems Division at the New York State Center of Excellence in Wireless and Information Technology (CEWIT) , a faculty member of Department of Computer Science , and an adjunct faculty member of Department of Technology and Society and the College of Business at Stony Brook University . At CEWIT, he is responsible for initiating and managing interdisciplinary R&D projects as well as overseeing the development of technology-based solutions. He is also the Deputy Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF) Industry/University Cooperative Research Center for Dynamic Data Analytics (CDDA) at Stony Brook University and a coordinator of the New York State Strategic Partnership for Industrial Resurgence (SPIR) program. His research interests include information retrieval, data mining, machine learning, semantic web, medical informatics, user interfaces, software engineering, and mobile computing. He has published peer-reviewed papers in major journals and international conferences and has authored chapters in several books. He is an associate editor of the International Journal of Computers and Their Applications and has served as a program committee member or program chair for numerous international conferences, a book reviewer for John Wiley & Sons, and a grant review panelist for various government agencies and foundations. He has provided consulting and training services to several Fortune 500 companies and served as an advisor, consultant or expert witness for companies in many industries. He also serves as an advisor to the Long Island Angel Network , which provides early stage capital to high technology companies. Rong Zhao holds a Ph.D. in Computer Science from Wayne State University , an MBA from Stony Brook University , and a B.E. degree in Computer Science and Technology from Tsinghua University in China. Center of Excellence in Wireless and Information Technology (CEWIT) CEWIT CEWIT2012 Conference CEWIT Korea SUNY Korea Reality Deck Center for Dynamic Data Analytics (CDDA) CDDA NSF I/UCRC Program Strategic Partnership for Industrial Resurgence (SPIR) SPIR Courses ISE320 Information Management (Spring 2013) CSE523/524 - Software Engineering Projects (Spring 2013) MBA511 Technological Innovation (Spring 2013) CSE333 - User Interface Design and Development (Fall 2012) CSE523/524 - Software Engineering Projects (Fall 2012) MBA511 Technological Innovation (Fall 2012) EMP509 Enterprise Information and Knowledge Systems Management (Summer 2012) ISE320 Information Management (Spring 2012) MBA588 Database Management (Spring 2012) EST582 Systems Approach to Human-Machine Systems CSE308 Software Engineering CSE500 - Patterns in Programming ISE504 - Analysis, Modeling and Design ITS102 How to Design Better User Interfaces Projects Current Projects Advanced Documentation of Clinical Encounters and Context-Aware Presentation of Electronic Medical Records In this project we are developing an innovative approach to the documentation of patient encounters and an advanced system for the synthesized presentation of clinical information relevant to diagnosis and treatment of the patient. Computer-Aided Diagnosis System for Fast, Accurate and Remote Evaluation of Acute Chest Pain This study aims to develop a computer-aided diagnosis system which allows physicians to remotely access and analyze cardiac MDCT of acute chest pain patients in emergency departments. This system will solve the problem of transferring large volumes of imaging data over the Internet. It will also facilitate remote monitoring and clinical decision support to rule out the presence of significant coronary artery disease. Once fully developed, this system will help reduce the crowding in emergency departments, increase the accuracy and efficiency of the diagnostic process, and improve the quality of care. Evidence-Based Utilization Management of New York State Medicaid Program This project focuses on developing an evidence-based decision support system to be used in monitoring and optimizing utilization of Medicaid services and facilitating quality assurance measures. The objective of this project is to establish beneficiary-specific utilization guidelines based on individual health status and proven best practices. A Software System for Functional Assessment and Outcome Prediction for Patient Discharge Planning Intelligent Robotic System for Healthy Independent Living A Health Monitoring System for Chronically Ill Patients Big Data Analytics for Health Information Exchange and Health Home Development Analytic Engine and Recommender System for Customer Relationship Management Semantic Methods for Dynamic Business Process Management Past Projects An Electronic Communication Screening and Analysis System A Software as a Service System for Emergency Medicine Staff Scheduling Computer Games and Virtual Reality Environment for Rehabilitation Patient Flow Optimization and Hospital Resource Management Software Development for Specialized Financial Data Management and Real-Time Trading Software for Portfolio Management and Trading Applications A Novel Caller Verification and Screening System Content Management System Service Migration Wiki and Product Knowledge Infrastructure Multimodal Biometric Verification Using Semantic-Based Data Fusion and Analysis Stereo Computer Vision System for 3D Monitoring of Animal Behavior Web-Based Information System for Customized Production Processes Identification System for Mobile Devices Automatic Scheduling and Allocation of Physicians Content Management Software Application Architecture Design and Development Language Interpretation Application for Healthcare Service Providers Using PDA and Tablet PC Workflow Design and Implementation for Automated Document Generation and Management Selected Publications Z. Zhang, F. Ahmed, A. Mittal, I. Ramakrishnan, R. Zhao, A. Viccellio , and K. Mueller, AnamneVis : A Framework for the Visualization of Patient History and Medical Diagnostics Chains , IEEE VisWeek Workshop on Visual Analytics in Healthcare , Providence, Rhode Island, 2011. Rong Zhao and William I. Grosky, Video Shot Detection Using Color Anglogram and Latent Semantic Indexing: From Contents to Semantics , Handbook of Video Databases: Design and Applications , B. Furht and O. Marques (Eds.), CRC Press, 2003, pp. 371-392. Rong Zhao and William I. Grosky, Narrowing the Semantic Gap - Improved Text-Based Web Document Retrieval Using Visual Features , IEEE Transactions on Multimedia , 4(2), 2002,pp. 189-200. Rong Zhao and William I. Grosky, Negotiating the Semantic Gap: From Feature Maps to Semantic Landscapes , Pattern Recognition , 35(3), 2002, pp. 593-600. Rong Zhao and William I. Grosky, Bridging the Semantic Gap in Image Retrieval , Distributed Multimedia Databases: Techniques and Applications , T. K. Shih (Ed.), Idea Group Publishing, Hershey, Pennsylvania, 2001, pp. 14-36. Rong Zhao and William I. Grosky, From Features to Semantics: Some Preliminary Results , IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo , New York, 2000. 
