 S.C. CHEUNG () Professor CASTLE Research Group Department of Computer Science and Engineering The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Shing-Chi (S.C.) Cheung received his Bachelor's degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from the University of Hong Kong, and his PhD degree in Computing from the Imperial College London. After doctoral graduation, he joined the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST) where he is a professor of Computer Science and Engineering. He founded the CASTLE research group at HKUST and co-founded in 2006 the International Workshop on Automation of Software Testing (AST). He serves on the editorial board of Science of Computer Programming (SCP) and Journal of Computer Science and Technology (JCST). He was an editorial board member of the IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering (TSE, 2006-9) and Information and Software Technology (IST, 2012-5). He participates actively in the program and organizing committees of major international software engineering conferences. He chaired the 19th Asia-Pacific Software Engineering Conference (APSEC) in 1996, 1997 and 2012. He was the General Chair of the 22nd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering (FSE 2014). He is an extended member of the ACM SIGSOFT executive committee . He owns four patents in China and the United States. His research interests lie in the software engineering methodologies that boost developer productivity and code quality using program analysis, testing and debugging, machine learning, crowdsourcing and open source software repository. He is a distinguished scientist of the ACM and a fellow of the British Computer Society. Note: Traveling direction to our campus is available here . Campus lift plan is available here . ( Virtual campus tour / Google Map of HKUST ) Research interests Software engineering - To boost code quality using program analysis, testing and debugging, synthesis and software analytics. Target applications include mobile apps, open-source projects, deep learning systems, web applications, smart contracts and spreadsheets. Research & Teaching CASTLE Research Group Publications ( Selected list with downloadable resources / Full list ) Research Projects Academic Services and Conference Organization Professional Activities Administrative Services Teaching COMP5111: Fundamentals of Software Analysis (Spring 2019) CSIT5100: Engineering Reliable Object-Oriented Software Systems (Spring 2019) COMP3021: Java Programming (Fall 2018) COMP1022P: Introduction to Computing with Java (Fall 2013) COMP697K: Engineering of Cyber-Physical Systems (Fall 2009) COMP211: Introduction to Software Engineering (Fall 2007) COMP610F: Pervasive and Embedded Software Engineering (Spring 2007) COMP512: Advanced Distributed Software Development (Spring 2006) My Postgraduate Students (Past & Present) Advice for Postgraduate Students Career Advice to Fresh Graduates Instructions to My Final Year Project Students Useful Links for Postgraduate Studies Intranet for undergraduates of Computer Science and Engineering Call for Contributions/Participation Science of Computer Programming (SCP) Journal of Computer Science and Technology (JCST) News A recent article from IEEE Spectrum on software engineering career. (March 2017) I am recruiting a highly devoted PhD student and/or postdoc. For PhD students, he or she must be interested in the construction and program analysis of dependable systems, in particular, on the mobile computing, cloud computing and spreadsheets. Qualified applicants must be competent Java and C++ programmers with strong motivation to conduct basic research and empirical experiments. They should have solid knowledge on software engineering, testing, compilers, algorithms, concurrency and data mining/machine learning. Experience in the participation of open-source projects is particularly welcome. Please send me an email with your resume and a recent photograph if you are interested. First year PhD students of Computer Science & Engineering (HKUST) who have not yet identified their supervisors are also welcome. For postdoc, he or she must have demonstrated their research ability by publishing widely on top-tier software engineering research venues, which includes TSE, TOSEM, ICSE, FSE, ISSTA, ASE and IEEE Software. Preferences will be given for those who have top-tier publications on program analysis and testing on mobile software. Elite PhD students recruited may also consider to join our dual PhD degrees program with the University of Waterloo. The students will be co-supervised by me and my research collaborator in the University of Waterloo. Are you occupied by worries? Look at the birds flying around: they do not sow seeds, gather a harvest and put it in barns; yet your Father in heaven takes care of them! Aren't you worth much more than birds? Can any of you live a bit longer by worrying about it? Instead be concerned above everything else with the Kingdom of God and with what your Father requires of you, and he will provide you with all these other things. So do not worry about tomorrow; it will have enough worries of its own. There is no need to add to the troubles each day brings. (Matthew: 6:26-27, 33-34) Father's Love Letter Download my digital public certificate 
