 Dik Lun LEE (PhD, Toronto, 1985) Professor Professor in the Department of Computer Science. Before joining HKUST, I was an Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science at the Ohio State University (Columbus, Ohio, USA). In 1992, I spent my sabbatical leave as a Distinguished Visiting Scholar at the Online Computer Library Center (OCLC, Dublin, Ohio, USA) and as a consultant to Information Dimensions Incorporated (IDI, Dublin, Ohio, USA), which was acquired by Opentext . Please explore further my background and other duties. I served as a guest editor for several special issues on database-related topics, and as program committee member and chair for several international conferences . As an ACM Lecturer from 1991 to 1993, I had given seminars on document access methods at universities and ACM Chapters. From 1995 to 1998, I served as an executive committee member, Vice Chairman and Chairman of ACM Hong Kong Chapter . "If you took all of the gold in the world it would roughly make a cube 67 feet on a side. So if you took all the gold in the world, we could have a cube that went down there 67 feet ... 67 feet high ... it would be worth at today's market prices about $7 trillion [Note: In 4/2011, gold price was at around US$1530/ounce]. ... Now, for $7 trillion ... you could have all the farmland in the United States, you could have about seven Exxon Mobil [Note: One of the largest publicly traded companies in the world], and you could have $1 trillion of walking around money. ... I, you know, maybe call me crazy but I'll take the farmland and the Exxon Mobil." Warren Buffett, CNBC Interview, Apr 30, 2011 "The contributions we made to computer science were unintended consequences." Bill Buxton, 2010. "We think the sun has not set on even the first day of the search opportunity." Yusuf Mehdi, MSN chief, Microsoft, Apr 2004. "The truth about knowledge management is that the quality of knowledge always matters less than the quality of management." --- Michael Schrage, MIT Media Lab "Most of the students' contribution to the creative diversity of the [MIT's Media] laboratory comes out in their search for a thesis topic, when they fit their own skills, perspectives, and interests to the interests and perspecive of both the faculty and sponsor." --- K. Haase, Chief Scientist, MIT Media Lab, in "Why the Media Lab works - A personal view," IBM Systems Journal , Vol 39, Nos 3/4, 2000. [Emphasis added by me.] "[At Xerox PARC ...] only 35 people costing in today's dollars, 10 or so million dollars, were enough to create trillions of dollars of wealth. Every large company has more than enough to afford PARC." --- Alan Kay in Still Waiting for the Revolution . "That is, thinking of the current uses of computers and communications as objects on a landscape, the "interesting stuff" is in the spaces between (and relating to) the objects." --- W.A. Wulf, CACM, 1997. Course(s) offered in Spring 2014-2015: COMP 4021: Internet Computing COMP 1900/2900/3900 (formerly COMP 001/002/003) Notes: Financial tsunami , Chinese version Bond and ibond , Chinese version European Sovereign Debt Crisis , Chinese version Fiscal Cliff and Debt Ceiling Crisis , Chinese version Research interests: Search engines, business intelligence, computers in economics, mobile data management Other interests Web search is required to deal with large amount of information, prepared in different formats and written by different people for differnt readers. Chinese search engine and content management poses unique challenges to us. Business Intelligence with web content analysis Press coverage: Sites I visit when I am not working : Economic news , , , , / Recent publications dlee@cs.ust.hk Computer Science Department The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Clear Water Bay, Kowloon HONG KONG Please send comments and suggestions to cssystem@cs.ust.hk Department of Computer Science The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, All rights reserved 
