 Long QUAN, (Ph.D., INRIA, France) Professor Long QUAN The Department of Computer Science and Engineering The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong, China Office: 3506 Email: quan at cse dot ust dot hk Office phone: (852) 2358 7018 Office fax: (852) 2358 1477 Long Quan received the Ph.D. in Computer Science at INRIA, France, in 1989. Before joining the Department of Computer Science at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST) in 2001 to found his computer vision group, he has been one of the founding members of INRIA Grenoble Computer Vision Group since 1990. He directed the founding best French PhD thesis in computer science by Peter Sturm, le prix de these Gilles Kahn in 1998, the Piero Zamperoni Best Student Paper Award in 2000 by Maxime Lhuillier, the first of six highlights of Siggraph 2007, the Best Student Poster Paper of CVPR 2008. His many graduate students are now world computer vision leaders at INRIA and CNRS in France, Lund University in Sweden, NUS in Singapore, Bejing University and DJI in China, SFU in Canada, and Microsoft, Google, and Princeton in USA. He has served in all the major computer vision journals, as an Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence (PAMI), a Regional Editor of Image and Vision Computing Journal (IVC), an editorial board member of the International Journal of Computer Vision (IJCV), an editorial board member of the Electronic Letters on Computer Vision and Image Analysis (ELCVIA), an associate editor of Machine Vision and Applications (MVA), and an editorial member of Foundations and Trends in Computer Graphics and Vision. He has contributed to all the major computer vision conferences, IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), and IEEE Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), and IAPR International Conference on Pattern Recognition (ICPR). He served as a Program Chair of ICPR 2006 Computer Vision and Image Analysis, a Program Chair of ICPR 2012 Computer and Robot Vision, and a General Chair of the ICCV 2011 in Barcelona. He is the founding director of the HKUST Center for Visual Computing and Image Science. He is also an IEEE Fellow of the Computer Society. Computer vision and deep learning technology: With his HKUST graduates, he founded altizure.com , the world's first portal for generating 3D from drone and smart phone photos! Teaching: In the fall 2017, he teaches OOP www.cse.ust.hk/~quan/comp2012 He has been elected as the HKUST Best Ten Lecturers by the HKUST students in 2004 and 2009. Publications: Some of his publications are here. Updated by Long Quan 
