 Home Publications Projects Teaching Students Bio Contact Prof. Pan Hui (ACM Distinguished Scientist & IEEE Fellow) I am the Nokia Chair in Data Science ( with a generous endowment from Nokia ) and a Professor of Computer Science at the University of Helsinki. I am also the director of the HKUST-DT System and Media Laboratory (SyMLab) at Computer Science and Engineering Department of Hong Kong University of Science and Technology since January 2013. Currently, I am on leave from my teaching and administrative duties at HKUST, but I am still leading my research team there. I am splitting my time between Hong Kong and Helsinki ( homepage ) and run a very international team with frequent research exchanges between Asia and Europe. I was a Senior Research Scientist and then a Distinguished Scientist with Deutsche Telekom Innovation Laboratories, Berlin Germany. I am an ACM Distinguished Scientist and an IEEE Fellow (Computer Society & Communications Society). I will serve on the 2018 IEEE Computer Society Fellows Evaluation Committee. As, over the years, I have conducted research at University of Helsinki, HKUST, Aalto University, Deutsche Telekom Laboratories, University of Cambridge, Thomson Research Paris, Intel Research Cambridge, and University of Hong Kong, my publications have covered a wide spectrum of topics including mobile computing, networking, social networks, network science, cloud computing, and augmented reality. A common theme underlying all of them is " Data Science for Sociotechnical Systems ", which further categorizes my research into two major topics: Data-driven Systems Design and Immersive Human-Data Interaction , covering three objectives: 1.) Using empirical big data to model human behaviors and gain deep insights into social and sociotechnical systems, and then further design better software systems with the evidences; 2.) Building energy efficient, high performance, and scalable software for mobile, wearable devices, and cloud systems with a data-driven approach; 3.) Developing Mobile Augmented Reality algorithms and systems for immersive data visualization and human-data interaction. I am an Associate Editor of both IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing and IEEE Transactions on Cloud Computing ; moreover, I am on the editorial board of the Springer journal of Computational Social Networks , and a guest editor for IEEE Communications Magazine and ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing, Communications, and Applications. I have also served as track chair, senior program committee member, organising committee member, and program committee member of many top conferences such as WWW, ACM SIGCOMM, ACM Mobisys, ACM CoNext, IEEE Infocom, IEEE ICNP, IEEE ICDCS, IJCAI, AAAI, and ICWSM. I am looking for top and motivated candidates for PhD and Postdocs for both University of Helsinki and HKUST to work on Augmented-Reality (AR), Mobile Computing, Social Networks or some other interesting Machine Learning/data mining applications. We are establishing the dual PhD programme so a qualified candidate can receive PhD degrees from both HKUST and University of Helsinki with the same thesis. I am also interested into hiring excellent interns to work on some researches of mutual interest together. Interested and qualified candidates may like to send me their CV and Statement of Purpose (SOP). You can reach me through my HKUST email address ( panhuiATcse.ust.hk ) or my Helsinki email address ( panhuiATcs.helsinki.fi ) Besides research, I like nature and a little bit of adventures. In 2002, I have cycled across Tibet for around 4500 KM. That was tough but fantastic. I have also organised a series of Extreme Conferences on Communications and Computing ( ExtremeCom 2009 , ExtremeCom 2010 , ExtremeCom 2011 , ExtremeCom 2012 , ExtremeCom 2013 , ExtremeCom 2014 ). Updates Our work "Talk2Me: A Framework for D2D Augmented Reality Social Network" received the Best Demo Award at PerCom 2018. I will serve on the 2018 IEEE Computer Society Fellows Evaluation Committee. Elevated as IEEE Fellow (Class 2018), for contributions to social-based opportunistic network. Elected as ACM Distinguished Scientist 2016, for contributions to mobility modelling and routing in opportunistic networking. Media coverage by MIT Technology Review on the research of my MPhil student Haris Mughess Latest publications M2A: A Frameworks for Visualizing Information from Mobile Web to Mobile Augmented Reality. Kit Yung Lam, Lik-Hang Lee, Tristan Braud, and Pan Hui. In Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communications (PerCom 2019), Kyoto Japan, March 2019. HIBEY: Hide the Keyboard in Augmented Reality. Lik-Hang Lee, Kit Yung Lam, Yui Pan Yau, Tristan Braud, and Pan Hui. In Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communications (PerCom 2019), Kyoto Japan, March 2019. Jaguar: Low Latency Mobile Augmented Reality with Flexible Tracking. Wenxiao Zhang, Bo Han, and Pan Hui. In Proceedings of ACM Multimedia 2018 Conference (ACM MM), Seoul, Korea, October 2018. CIRCE: Real-Time Caching for Instance Recognition on Cloud Environments and Multi-Core Architectures. Luca Lovagnini, Wenxiao Zhang, Farshid Hassani Bijarbooneh, and Pan Hui. In Proceedings of ACM Multimedia 2018 Conference (ACM MM), Seoul, Korea, October 2018. 
