 Wei Wang Home People Publications Teaching News Links Wei Wang () Assistant Professor Department of Computer Science & Engineering The Hong Kong University of Science & Technology Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong Contact Office: Room 3524 Tel: +852 2358 6972 E-mail: weiwa [at] cse [dot] ust [dot] hk Web: http://www.cse.ust.hk/~weiwa About Me I joined HKUST in 2015 after receiving my Ph.D. from the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering , University of Toronto . Prior to that, I obtained the B.Eng. and M.Sc. degrees from Shanghai Jiao Tong University . I am also affiliated with HKUST Big Data Institute . My research interests cover the broad area of networking and distributed systems, with a special focus on big data and machine learning systems , cloud computing , and computer networks . I am particularly interested in identifying fundamenal system design and performance optimization issues in large-scale cloud systems and searching for solutions that are generally applicable, efficient, and easily implementable. Wei's Curriculum Vitae . To Perspective Students, Postdocs, and Research Assistants I am looking for highly motivated graduate students, postdocs, and/or research assistants (RAs) to work on measuring, analyzing, designing, and implementing large-scale networked systems, including distributed machine learning and data analytics frameworks , cluster caching systems , cloud datacenters , and wide-area network . Students with strong hands-on system building skills and/or mathematical background are especially welcomed. Stipend is highly competitive and will be commensurate with qualifications and experience. If you are interested in working with me, please feel free to drop me an email along with your CV, transcripts, standard test reports (e.g., TOEFL, GRE, IELTS, etc.), and any other documents that you believe can well demonstrate your research capability and potential. Professional Services Please consider submitting your work to the following venues. Editorial Board China Communications Call for Papers Current Membership of Technical Program Committee The 39th IEEE International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS 2019) IEEE INFOCOM 2019 News 2/2019: Awarded as one of the Distinguished TPC members of IEEE INFOCOM 2019. 11/2018: R2SP has been accepted by IEEE INFOCOM 2019 . 8/2018: Continuum has been accepted by ACM SoCC 2018 (feature reported by The Morning Paper ). 7/2018: Chen has successfully defended his PhD thesis. Congratulations to Dr. Chen! 7/2018: Minchen was selected as the recipient of the newly installed Huawei PhD Fellowship. Congratulations! 6/2018: SP-Cache has been accepted by IEEE/ACM SC18 . 3/2018: SpecSync, OpuS, and NC-DRF have been accepted by IEEE ICDCS 2018 . More Personal I enjoy swimming and playing basketball. I am also an NBA fan. Page generated 2019-02-06 17:40:39 HKT, by jemdoc . 
