 More about HKUST University News Academic Departments A-Z Life@HKUST Library Map & Directions Jobs@HKUST Faculty Profiles About HKUST Intranet School of Engineering Quick Links for Undergraduates Postgraduates Faculty & Staff Alumni Job Seekers Employers About Welcome Mission & Vision About CSE Fast Facts News & Events Job Openings Contact Us People Faculty Staff Postgraduates Alumni Research Research Areas Research Labs & Centers Research Projects Computing Facilities Academics Undergraduate Postgraduate Enrichment Quality Assurance Admissions Undergraduate Postgraduate PG Early Recruiting Graduate Placements School of Engineering Hui LEI Hui LEI PhD in Computer Science, Columbia University Adjunct Professor Email: dr.huilei@gmail.com Email dr.huilei@gmail.com Research Area Networking and Computer Systems Research Interests Cloud computing; Big data engineering; The Internet of things; Enterprise computing Biography Hui Lei is Chief Technology Officer of IBM Watson Health Cloud, an IBM Distinguished Engineer, and an IBM Master Inventor. Previously he was Senior Manager, Cloud Platform Technologies at the IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, and led IBM's worldwide research strategies in cloud infrastructure services and cloud managed services. His technical vision and creative contributions have influenced many commercial software products and services, which range across big data and cognitive solutions, cloud services, middleware platform for mobile and pervasive computing, and e-business tooling. He has over 80 patents to his credit. Dr. Lei is a Fellow of the IEEE, a member of the IEEE Computer Society Golden Core, Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Cloud Computing, and a past Chair of the IEEE Computer Society Technical Committee on Business Informatics and Systems. He has been recognized with an IEEE Computer Society Technical Achievement Award for "pioneering contributions to scalable access to real-world data" and an IEEE Computer Society Distinguished Service Award for "continual and outstanding service to the society's mobile computing, cloud computing, and e-business communities." He received the B.S. degree from Sun Yat-sen University, an M.S. degree from New York University, and a Ph.D. degree from Columbia University, all in Computer Science. Navigation Navigation People Faculty Staff Postgraduates Alumni About Welcome Mission & Vision About CSE Fast Facts News & Events Job Openings Contact Us People Faculty Staff Postgraduates Alumni Research Research Areas Research Labs & Centers Research Projects Computing Facilities Academics Undergraduate Postgraduate Enrichment Quality Assurance Admissions Undergraduate Postgraduate PG Early Recruiting Graduate Placements Last updated on 2019-01-30 Privacy Sitemap Copyright The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Follow us on Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Contact Us Privacy Sitemap Follow us on Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Contact Us Copyright The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. 
