 More about HKUST University News Academic Departments A-Z Life@HKUST Library Map & Directions Jobs@HKUST Faculty Profiles About HKUST Intranet School of Engineering Quick Links for Undergraduates Postgraduates Faculty & Staff Alumni Job Seekers Employers About Welcome Mission & Vision About CSE Fast Facts News & Events Job Openings Contact Us People Faculty Staff Postgraduates Alumni Research Research Areas Research Labs & Centers Research Projects Computing Facilities Academics Undergraduate Postgraduate Enrichment Quality Assurance Admissions Undergraduate Postgraduate PG Early Recruiting Graduate Placements School of Engineering Zhengyou ZHANG Zhengyou ZHANG PhD and DSc in Computer Science, University of Paris Adjunct Professor Email: zhengyou@tencent.com Email zhengyou@tencent.com Research Area Artificial Intelligence; Vision and Graphics Research Interests Artificial intelligence; Robotics; Computer vision; Speech recognition; Multimedia systems; Signal processing; Developmental learning Biography Zhengyou Zhang received the B.S. degree in electronic engineering from Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China, in 1985, the M.S. degree in computer science from the University of Nancy, Nancy, France, in 1987, and the Ph.D. degree in computer science in 1990 and the Doctorate of Science (Habilitation diriger des recherches) in 1994 from the University of Paris XI, Paris, France. He is a Distinguished Scientist and the Director of Tencent Robotics X since March 2018. Before that, he was a Partner Research Manager with Microsoft Research, Redmond, WA, USA, for 20 years. Before joining Microsoft Research in March 1998, he was a Senior Research Scientist with INRIA (French National Institute for Research in Computer Science and Control), France. In 1996-1997, he spent a one-year sabbatical as an Invited Researcher with the Advanced Telecommunications Research Institute International (ATR), Kyoto, Japan. Dr. Zhang is an ACM Fellow and an IEEE Fellow. He is the Founding Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Cognitive and Developmental Systems , is on the Honorary Board of the International Journal of Computer Vision and on the Steering Committee of the Machine Vision and Applications , and has served as an Associate Editor for many journals. He was a General Co-Chair of IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) 2017. He received the IEEE Helmholtz Test of Time Award at ICCV 2013 for his paper published in 1999 on camera calibration, now known as Zhang's method. Navigation Navigation People Faculty Staff Postgraduates Alumni About Welcome Mission & Vision About CSE Fast Facts News & Events Job Openings Contact Us People Faculty Staff Postgraduates Alumni Research Research Areas Research Labs & Centers Research Projects Computing Facilities Academics Undergraduate Postgraduate Enrichment Quality Assurance Admissions Undergraduate Postgraduate PG Early Recruiting Graduate Placements Last updated on 2018-08-16 Privacy Sitemap Copyright The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Follow us on Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Contact Us Privacy Sitemap Follow us on Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Contact Us Copyright The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. 
