 More about HKUST University News Academic Departments A-Z Life@HKUST Library Map & Directions Jobs@HKUST Faculty Profiles About HKUST Intranet School of Engineering Quick Links for Undergraduates Postgraduates Faculty & Staff Alumni Job Seekers Employers About Welcome Mission & Vision About CSE Fast Facts News & Events Job Openings Contact Us People Faculty Staff Postgraduates Alumni Research Research Areas Research Labs & Centers Research Projects Computing Facilities Academics Undergraduate Postgraduate Enrichment Quality Assurance Admissions Undergraduate Postgraduate PG Early Recruiting Graduate Placements School of Engineering Yu-Wing TAI Yu-Wing TAI PhD in Computer Science, National University of Singapore Adjunct Associate Professor Email: yuwing@gmail.com Email yuwing@gmail.com Research Area Vision and Graphics Research Interests Deep learning; Computer vision; Image/video processing Biography Dr. Yu-Wing Tai received his BEng (First Class Honors) and MPhil degrees from the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, HKUST in 2003 and 2005 and PhD degree from the National University of Singapore in 2009. He is currently an Adjunct Associate Professor at the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, HKUST. He is a research director of YouTu research lab of Social Network Group of Tencent. He was a principle research scientist of SenseTime Group Limited from September 2015 to December 2016. He was an associate professor at the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) from July 2009 to August 2015. From Sept 2007 to June 2008, he worked as a full-time student internship in the Microsoft Research Asia (MSRA). He was awarded the Microsoft Research Asia Fellowship in 2007, and the KAIST 40th Anniversary Academic Award for Excellent Professor in 2011 respectively. His research interests include deep learning, computer vision and image/video processing. Navigation Navigation People Faculty Staff Postgraduates Alumni About Welcome Mission & Vision About CSE Fast Facts News & Events Job Openings Contact Us People Faculty Staff Postgraduates Alumni Research Research Areas Research Labs & Centers Research Projects Computing Facilities Academics Undergraduate Postgraduate Enrichment Quality Assurance Admissions Undergraduate Postgraduate PG Early Recruiting Graduate Placements Last updated on 2018-01-16 Privacy Sitemap Copyright The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Follow us on Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Contact Us Privacy Sitemap Follow us on Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Contact Us Copyright The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. 
