 Ricci IEONG Visiting Assistant Professor Department of Computer Science and Engineering The Hong Kong University of Science & Technology Room 3558, (lift 27/28) Email: ricci AT ust DOT hk About Ricci Ricci IEONG first started his IT security research and development work in CyberSpace Center of HKUST in 1997 after he obtained his M.Phil degree from COMP (HKUST). Then in 2000, he joint Hewlett Packard Service Consulting & Integration in Hong Kong and founded the first Penetration Test Center within Hewlett-Packard. After working in HP for 5 years, he founded his own IT security company where he leads the IT security planning, IT security assessment, Digital Forensics Investigation, Penetration test and IT audit project as well as security management solution design projects. At the same time, he continued to work part-time as a researcher in digital forensics field. He frequently published papers on Peer-to-peer forensics, Live Forensics, Log analysis area and a digital forensics investigation framework - FORZA. After practicing over 15 years of IT Security and Digital Forensics investigation, he obtained his Ph.D degree (Digital Forensics) from Computer Science Department (the University of Hong Kong). He is also the founding member and secretary of Information Security and Forensics Society (ISFS) of Hong Kong, Cloud Security Alliance (HK & Macau Chapter) and an active member of HTCIA (Asia-Pacific Chapter). He also achieved CISSP, CISA, CEH, CCFP, CCSK, CCSP, EXIN Cloud Foundation Certificate, COBIT Foundation Certificate, ISSAP, ISSMP, ISO 27001 Lead Auditor, STAR Auditor, SC27 Observer (HK representative). He is a member of the newly established Cybersecurity Lab at HKUST, Education Director of Cloud Security Alliance (HK & Macau Chapter), Instructor of Professional Diploma of Digital Forensics (PDITF) by ISFS and HKUSpace . Research Riccis research interests include CyberSecurity Framework, IT Security information sharing, Security Log Management, Digital Forensics and Cloud Forensics. My PhD research concentrated on Peer-to-Peer network forensics research. Google Scholar page Teaching COMP4632, Practicing CyberSecurity : Attacks and Counter-measures ( 2016 Fall ) COMP4632, Practicing CyberSecurity : Attacks and Counter-measures ( 2015 Fall ) Students In this year, Ricci started to lead Final Year Projects (FYP) on IT security hot topics. Any students who are still interested in participating industry-driven IT security or digital forensics, cloud computing security projects or research. You can always contact me . Professional Activities 1. IT Security Organization a. Council Member of Information Security and Forensics Society, 2000 - b. Director of Cloud Security Alliance (HK & Macau Chapter), 2012 c. Instructor of Postgraduate Diploma in IT Forensics of HKUSpace , 2008 d. CCSP Trainer, 2016 e. CCSK Trainer, 2013 - 2. Reviewer a. Reviewers of Future Internet (ISSN 1999-5903) in 2014 3. Chairs a. SADFE: Program Co-Chair (2014) Other Security News 1. Forensics Challenges, Black T-Shirt Forensics Challenge organized 2 annual challenges every year One Annual challenge around every January to April and one mini challenge around every September to December. Any students who are interested in this challenge, you can always contact me . https://cyberforensicschallenge.com/challenges/annual-challenge/ https://cyberforensicschallenge.com/challenges/mini-challenges/ 
