MENU Home About Teaching Administration Project Supervision Weekly Schedule Home About Teaching Administration Project Supervision Weekly Schedule Dr. Desmond Yau-chat Tsoi Lecturer, Department of Computer Science and Engineering School of Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Ph.D., Computer Science, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore M.Phil., Computer Science, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology B.Eng., Computer Engineering, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Room 3553 (Lift 27-28) Department of Computer Science and Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong Path Advisor URL: http://www.cse.ust.hk/~desmond E-mail: desmond (followed by .cse.ust.hk) Phone (Voice): +852-2358-6984 Phone (Fax): +852-2358-1477 0 1 COMP1022P Introduction to Computing with Java (SPRING 2019) Description: This course is designed to equip students with the fundamental concepts of programming elements and data abstraction using Java. Students will learn how to write procedural programs using variables, arrays, control statements, loops, recursion, data abstraction and objects using an integrated development environment. Official Course Website Supplementary Course Website COMP2012 Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures (SPRING 2019) Description: To learn the fundamental concepts and techniques behind object-oriented programming. They include: abstract data types; creation, initialization, and destruction of objects; class hierarchies; polymorphism, inheritance and dynamic binding; generic programming using templates. To learn the object-oriented view of data structures: linked lists, queues, stacks, trees, and algorithms such as searching, sorting, and hashing algorithms. Official Course Website Supplementary Course Website CSIT5800 Introduction to Big Data (SPRING 2019) Description: This course aims at providing students with the fundamental concepts and overview of Big Data, and at the same time, engaging in open discussion about the challenges and opportunities that it brought about. Topics to be covered: Properties of Big Data, Big Data Integration, Big Data Mining, and Technologies and Tools on Big Data Analytics. COMP4971B Independent Work (SPRING 2019) Description: Independent studies or projects under the directed guidance of a faculty member on a computer science topic. A written report, presentation, and/or an examination are required. Enrollment in the course requires prior approval of the course instructor, and credits assigned depend on the workload. May be repeated for credits. ENGG4930 Design for Global Health (SPRING 2019) Description: A group / individual special project supervised by one or a group of faculty members. Student(s) is/are required to conduct a project on a specified topic related to Global Health. Team will set objectives at the beginning of the semester. There will be several task-based assessments throughout the semester to check their progress. At the end of semester need to show case their output in a form of Roadshow and have to a submit the final report graded by SIGHT Teaching team, Faculty advisors and SIGHT partners. Enrollment in the project course requires approval of the course instructor. MY FAVOURITE QUOTES "Respect a man, he will do the more." James Howell "The best executive is the one who has sense enough to pick good men to do what he wants done, and self-restraint enough to keep from meddling with them while they do it." Theodore Roosevelt "The absent are always in the wrong." "Good words cost nothing, but are worth much." Thomas Fuller "Advice when most needed is least heeded." About Me Short Biography, Professional Qualification / Membership, Honours / Awards, Certificates, Academic Expertises, Academic Interests, Professional Skills, Spoken Languages, and more Short Biography Dr. Desmond Tsoi is an academic in Computer Science and Engineering. He obtained his B.Eng. in Computer Engineering and M.Phil. in Computer Science from the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology . In 2009, he obtained his Ph.D. in Computer Science at the Nanyang Technological University, Singapore . Dr. Tsoi has strong passion in tertiary education and has extensive experience in teaching students from different backgrounds and in different levels. He has held teaching positions at the Nanyang Technological University, Hong Kong Polytechnic University (SPEED) , and Hong Kong College of Technology . In the recent past he was the Programme Leader of Associate of Science in Information Systems Development at the Division of Applied Science and Technology , Community College of City University . On top of teaching, Dr. Tsoi has enthusiasm on conducting academic research. He has published academic papers in peer-reviewed journals and conferences, such as IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, and IEEE Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), in the field of Computer Vision. His research interests include Computer Vision, Image/Video Processing, Computer Graphics, Web Technology and Multimedia. Professional Qualification / Membership Personality Dimensions Facilitator (Level I) Research and Publications Journal Papers Michael S. Brown and Yau-Chat Tsoi (2006) "Geometric and Shading Correction for Images of Printed Materials Using Boundary Interpolation", IEEE Transactions on Image Processing (T-IP), June 2006 Michael S. Brown and Yau-Chat Tsoi (2005) "Distortion Removal for Camera-Imaged Print Materials Using Boundary Interpolation", International Journal on Image and Graphics, Special Issue: Advances in Document Analysis (IJIG), April 2005 Conference Papers Yau-Chat Tsoi and Michael S. Brown (2007) "Multi-View Document Rectification Using Boundary", IEEE Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), June 2007 Yau-Chat Tsoi and Michael S. Brown (2004) "Geometric and Shading Correction of Imaged Print Materials: A Unified Approach Using Boundary", IEEE Computer Society Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), July 2004 Yau-Chat Tsoi and Michael S. Brown (2004) "A Framework for Removing Dynamic Blemishes from Video", Asian Conference on Computer Vision (ACCV), Jan 2004 Michael S. Brown and Yau-Chat Tsoi (2004) "Undistorting Imaged Print Materials Using Boundary Information", Asian Conference on Computer Vision (ACCV), Jan 2004 Michael S. Brown and Yau-Chat Tsoi (2003) "Correcting Common Image Distortions in Library Materials Acquired by a Camera", IEEE/ACM Joint Conference on Digital Libraries (JCDL), May 2003 Technical Paper Yau-Chat Tsoi and Michael S. Brown (2002) Video Cosmetics: Digital Removal of Blemishes, Technical report, HKUST TRCS-12-02, 2002 Research and Publications (Cont'd) Ph.D. Thesis Yau-Chat Tsoi (2009) Geometric and Photometric Correction for Camera-Imaged Documents: A Unified Approach Using Document Boundary, Ph.D. Thesis, Department of Computer Science, School of Computer Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, March 2009. Master Thesis Yau-Chat Tsoi (2003) Video Cosmetics: A Digital Removal of Blemishes from Video, MPhil. Thesis, Department of Computer Science, HKUST, May 2003. Conference Presentations IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo (ICME 2004), June 27-30, 2004, Taipei, Taiwan. Asian Conference on Computer Vision (ACCV 2004), January 27-30, 2004, Jeju Island, Korea. IEEE International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP 2003), September 14-17, 2003, Barcelona, Spain. Reviewer IEEE Signal Processing Society - IEEE Transactions on Image Processing (T-IP) International Journal of Computer Vision (IJCV) Appreciation to IJCV Reviewers (International Journal of Computer Vision, Volume 91, Number 1, 1-6, DOI: 10.1007/s11263-010-0414-y) IEEE Signal Processing Letters Honours / Awards Nominee of 2017 HKUST Common Core Teaching Excellence Award Recipient of the Best Ten Lecturers Award (Presented by VERTEX, HKUST) - The awards are determined by student votes across all departments at HKUST. Only ten awards are given each year for the entire university. Award conferred by Tony F. Chan, President of HKUST, 2017 ( Photo Taken At Stage , Department News ) Press Releases of CCCU: The importance of devoted guidance in school for improving learning atmosphere, 2012 Interviewed by SingTao Daily about Career Counseling, 2010 Outstanding Alumni Award conferred by Rev. Paul Kwong, the Archbishop of Hong Kong, 2009 ( Reporting Document , Photo Taken At Stage) HKUST Best Teaching Assistant Award Postgraduate Scholarships, NTU, 2006-2008 Postgraduate Studentships, HKUST, 2001-2003 Dean's List Award, HKUST Sir Edward Youde Memorial Prize, 1996-1997 Certificates Certificate of Appreciation for Faculty Member's Support in the HKUST President's Cup 2018, Year 2018 ( Photo ) Certificate of Attendance for an Education Workshop Cloud Days Ahead for Education conducted by Symantec.cloud Hong Kong, Year 2011 Certificate of Attendance for a Joint Teacher Training and Staff Development Programme - Intensive Teacher Training Programme on "The Education Environment Locally and Globally" organized by the Federation for Continuing Education in Tertiary Institutions, Year 2011 Certificate of Attendance in participating a Joint Teacher Training and Staff Development Programme - Introduction to Teaching in Tertiary Education organized by the Federation for Continuing Education in Tertiary Institutions, Year 2011 Certificate of Attendance for a Staff Development Seminar: "Teaching 2 Learn, Learning 2 Teach", Year 2011 Certificate of Training for a Course conducted by the Auxiliary Medical Service and Occupational Safety and Health Council on Emergency Aid, Year 2008 Certificate of a Training for a Course conducted by the Occupational Safety and Health Counil on Certificate of Competence in Display Screen Equipment Assessment, Year 2008 Certificate of Achievement, Center for Enhanced Learning and Teaching, HKUST, Year 2001-2002 Invited Talks Articulation Talk for ISD & NSA Students organized by 29th Executive Committee of Computer Science Society, City University of Hong Kong Students Union (2014) Career Talk for ISD and NSA Students organized by 29th Executive Committee of Computer Science Society, City University of Hong Kong Students' Union (2014) The 29th CityU Computer Science Society Inauguration Ceremony (2014) (2014) Articulation Talk for ISD, NSA and Associate of Science in Creative and Interactive Media Production (CIMP) Students organized by 28th Executive Committee of Computer Science Society, City University of Hong Kong Students' Union (2013) Articulation Talk for ISD, NSA and CIMP Students organized by 27th Executive Committee of Computer Science Society, City University of Hong Kong Students' Union (2012) Seminar: IT Development in Hong Kong offered to Harbin Engineering University (2012) Articulation Talk for ISD, NSA and CIMP Students organized by 26th Executive Committee of Computer Science Society, City University of Hong Kong Students Union (2011) The Associate of Engineering Careers Talk organized by the 25th Electronic Engineering Society, City University of Hong Kong Students Union (2011) The Teachers Forum Comprehensive Guidance and Support Services for Associate Degree Students) offered by Personal and Career Development Centre (PACD), CCCU (2010) The Media Gathering on Promoting CCCU Caring Culture (2010) Academic Expertises Image and Video Processing, Computer Vision, Computer Graphics Past affiliation with groups: Vision and Graphics Group (VisGraph) , HKUST Centre for Multimedia and Network Technology (CeMNet) , NTU, Singapore Professional Skills General Programming Languages:C, C++, C#, Java, Visual Basic, Tcl/Tk and Pascal Web Programming Languages:XHTML, DHTML, VRML, CSS, JavaScript, ActionScript, SVG, SMIL, PHP, ASP and JSP Handset Apps Programming:Google / OHA Android, Objective-C Others:Matlab, Octave, Maxima, Scilab, OpenGL, VBA, GLUT, GLUI, FLTK, MFC, Qt, VTK, Winsock, C-Socket, DirectX, MySQL, Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Premiere, Visio, Microsoft Office, Freehand, Dreamweaver, Audition, Audacity, Blender and LaTex Spoken Languages Cantonese and Hokkien: Native English and Mandarin: Fluent Other Information PhD and Master Thesis supervised by Prof. Michael S. BROWN, Ph.D. Kentucky, Professor, Canada Research Chair in Computer Vision, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Lassonde School of Engineering, York University Final Year Project supervised by Prof. Shueng-Han Gary CHAN, Ph.D. Stanford University, Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, HKUST; Committee Chair on Entrepreneurship Education; Associate Director of Multimedia Technology Research Center (MTRec) Mentor, Dr. Fletcher Orlan Lee, Visiting Fellow and Life Member, Clare Hall, University of Cambridge;Adjunct Professor of Law, Department of Accounting, School of Business & Management, HKUST Teaching List of Courses Taught at HKUST, PolyU SPEED, CCCU, NTU, HKCT Teaching Interests Structural / Procedural Programming, Object-Oriented Programming and Design, Data Structures and Algorithms, Design and Analysis of Algorithms, Multimedia and Internet Computing, Application Development for Portable Devices, Basic Calculus and Linear Algebra, Mathematical Analysis, Discrete Mathematics, Image Processing and Pattern Recognition, Computer Graphics and Visualization, Human Computer Interaction, Digital Media Design and Production Teaching Experience Nanyang Technological University, Singapore (Degree Programmes) School of Computer Engineering and Computer Science The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Degree Programmes including Honours Track Programmes) Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Department of Accounting The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (Degree Programmes) School of Professional Education and Executive Development Community College of City University (Associate Degree Programmes) Division of Computer Studies (renamed to Division of Applied Science and Technology in September 2012) Hong Kong College of Technology (Higher Diploma Programmes and Diploma Programmes) Division of Computer Science and Information Technology Students Early admitted students in undergraduate programmes (HKUST) JUPAS and non-JUPAS students in undergraduate programmes (HKUST) Students of overseas undergraduate programmes (NTU, Singapore) Students from different Asian countries, including local Singaporean, Mainland Chinese, Malaysian, Indonesian, Vietnamese, Myanmarian, etc. Students admitted in self-financed undergraduate programmes (PolyU SPEED) Students in associate-degree programmes (CCCU) Students in higher diploma programmes (HKCT) Students in diploma programmes (HKCT) Gifted high school students (HKUST) HKUST PolyU SPEED CCCU NTU HKCT Courses Taught at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Department of Computer Science and Engineering Spring Semester 2018/19 (Details) COMP10222P Introduction to Computing with Java COMP2012 Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures CSIT5800 Introduction to Big Data COMP4971B Independent Work ENGG4930 Design for Global Health Fall Semester 2018/19 (Details) COMP2012 Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures COMP2012H Honors Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures COMP4971A Independent Work Spring Semester 2017/18 (Details) COMP10222P Introduction to Computing with Java COMP2012 Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures ENGG4930 Design for Global Health CSIT5800 Introduction to Big Data Fall Semester 2017/18 (Details) COMP2012 Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures COMP3021 Java Programming ENGG4950T Engineering Special Project: Design for Global Health Spring Semester 2016/17 (Details) COMP10222P Introduction to Computing with Java COMP2012 Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures Fall Semester 2016/17 (Details) COMP2012 Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures COMP3511 Operating Systems Spring Semester 2015/16 (Details) COMP1022P Introduction to Computing with Java COMP2012 Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures Department of Accounting Fall Semester 2001/02 ACCT261 Business Law ACCT266 Intellectual Property and IT Law, Cyberlaw Department of Computer Science Fall Semester 2005/06 COMP171 Data Structues and Algorithms Spring Semester 2005/06 COMP271 Design and Analysis of Algorithms Workshop for Honour Engineering Students and HKJSECS members Winter Term 2006 Windows Server Environment and Linux System Administration Industrial Training Courses Fall Semester 2004/05 COMP271 Design and Analysis of Algorithms Spring Semester 2004/05 COMP151 Object-Oriented Programming COMP190A Directed Studies I, Honour Study Track X Department of Computer Science and Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Spring, 2018/19 COMP1022P Introduction to Computing with Java This course is designed to equip students with the fundamental concepts of programming elements and data abstraction using Java. Students will learn how to write procedural programs using variables, arrays, control statements, loops, recursion, data abstraction and objects using an integrated development environment. Role: Course Instructor (L1 & L2) Number of students: TBD Programmes: Common Core (QR) for 4-Year Programs COMP2012 Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures To learn the fundamental concepts and techniques behind object-oriented programming. They include: abstract data types; creation, initialization, and destruction of objects; class hierarchies; polymorphism, inheritance and dynamic binding; generic programming using templates. To learn the object-oriented view of data structures: linked lists, queues, stacks, trees, and algorithms such as searching, sorting, and hashing algorithms. Role: Course Instructor (L2 & L3) Number of students: TBD Programmes: BEng. in Computer Science, BEng. in Computer Engineering, etc. CSIT5800 Introduction to Big Data This course aims at providing students with the fundamental concepts and overview of Big Data, and at the same time, engaging in open discussion about the challenges and opportunities that it brought about. Topics to be covered: Properties of Big Data, Big Data Integration, Big Data Mining, and Technologies and Tools on Big Data Analytics. Role: Course Instructor Number of students: TBD Programmes: Master of Science in Information Technology COMP4971B Independent Work Independent studies or projects under the directed guidance of a faculty member on a computer science topic. A written report, presentation, and/or an examination are required. Enrollment in the course requires prior approval of the course instructor, and credits assigned depend on the workload. May be repeated for credits Role: Course Instructor Number of students: TBD Programmes: To be determined ENGG4930 Design for Global Health A group / individual special project supervised by one or a group of faculty members. Student(s) is/are required to conduct a project on a specified topic related to Global Health. Team will set objectives at the beginning of the semester. There will be several task-based assessments throughout the semester to check their progress. At the end of semester need to show case their output in a form of Roadshow and have to a submit the final report graded by SIGHT Teaching team, Faculty advisors and SIGHT partners. Enrollment in the project course requires approval of the course instructor. Role: Course Instructor Number of students: TBD Programmes: Students from the School of Engineering X Department of Computer Science and Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Fall, 2018/19 COMP2012 Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures To learn the fundamental concepts and techniques behind object-oriented programming. They include: abstract data types; creation, initialization, and destruction of objects; class hierarchies; polymorphism, inheritance and dynamic binding; generic programming using templates. To learn the object-oriented view of data structures: linked lists, queues, stacks, trees, and algorithms such as searching, sorting, and hashing algorithms. Role: Course Instructor (L1) Number of students: 125 Programmes: BEng. in Computer Science, BEng. in Computer Engineering, etc. COMP2012H Honors Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures This course is an accelerated and intensive course on concepts and techniques behind object-oriented programming (OOP) and data structures using an OOP language. It covers the major materials of COMP2011 and COMP2012, and its curriculum is designed for students with excellent programming background or substantial programming experience. Topics include: functions; pointers; abstract data types and their class implementation; static and dynamic construction and destruction of objects; data member and member functions; public interface and encapsulation; class hierarchies; polymorphism; inheritance and dynamic binding; standard template library; generic programming using templates; object-oriented view of data structures: linked lists, queues, stacks, trees, and their algorithms such as searching, sorting and hashing. Role: Course Instructor (L1) Number of students: 63 Programmes: BEng. in Computer Science, BEng. in Computer Engineering, etc. COMP4971A Independent Work Independent studies or projects under the directed guidance of a faculty member on a computer science topic. A written report, presentation, and/or an examination are required. Enrollment in the course requires prior approval of the course instructor, and credits assigned depend on the workload. May be repeated for credits. Role: Course Instructor (R1) Number of students: 1 Programmes: BSc. in Mathematics X Department of Computer Science and Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Spring, 2017/18 COMP1022P Introduction to Computing with Java This course is designed to equip students with the fundamental concepts of programming elements and data abstraction using Java. Students will learn how to write procedural programs using variables, arrays, control statements, loops, recursion, data abstraction and objects using an integrated development environment. Role: Course Instructor (L1 & L2) Number of students: 133 Programmes: Common Core (QR) for 4-Year Programs COMP2012 Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures To learn the fundamental concepts and techniques behind object-oriented programming. They include: abstract data types; creation, initialization, and destruction of objects; class hierarchies; polymorphism, inheritance and dynamic binding; generic programming using templates. To learn the object-oriented view of data structures: linked lists, queues, stacks, trees, and algorithms such as searching, sorting, and hashing algorithms. Role: Course Instructor (L3 & L4) Number of students: 165 Programmes: BEng. in Computer Science, BEng. in Computer Engineering, etc. ENGG4930 Design for Global Health A group / individual special project supervised by one or a group of faculty members. Student(s) is/are required to conduct a project on a specified topic related to Global Health. Team will set objectives at the beginning of the semester. There will be several task-based assessments throughout the semester to check their progress. At the end of semester need to show case their output in a form of Roadshow and have to a submit the final report graded by SIGHT Teaching team, Faculty advisors and SIGHT partners. Enrollment in the project course requires approval of the course instructor. Role: Course Instructor Number of students: 15 Programmes: Students from the School of Engineering CSIT5800 Introduction to Big Data This course aims at providing students with the fundamental concepts and overview of Big Data, and at the same time, engaging in open discussion about the challenges and opportunities that it brought about. Topics to be covered: Properties of Big Data, Big Data Integration, Big Data Mining, and Technologies and Tools on Big Data Analytics. Role: Course Instructor Number of students: 54 Programmes: Master of Science in Information Technology X Department of Computer Science and Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Fall, 2017/18 COMP2012 Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures To learn the fundamental concepts and techniques behind object-oriented programming. They include: abstract data types; creation, initialization, and destruction of objects; class hierarchies; polymorphism, inheritance and dynamic binding; generic programming using templates. To learn the object-oriented view of data structures: linked lists, queues, stacks, trees, and algorithms such as searching, sorting, and hashing algorithms. Role: Course Instructor (L1) Number of students: 118 Programmes: BEng. in Computer Science, BEng. in Computer Engineering, etc. COMP3021 Java Programming Introduction to Java programming. Fundamentals include language syntax, object-oriented programming, inheritance, polymorphism, exception handling, multithreading. Standard libraries for input/output, graphics programming, built-in data structures. Programming for events, web, networking, generics. Role: Course Instructor (L1) Number of students: 106 Programmes: BEng. in Computer Science, BEng. in Computer Engineering, etc. ENGG4950T Engineering Special Project: Design for Global Health A group / individual special project supervised by one or a group of faculty members. Student(s) is/are required to conduct a project on a specified topic related to Global Health. Team will set objectives at the beginning of the semester. There will be several task-based assessments throughout the semester to check their progress. At the end of semester need to show case their output in a form of Roadshow and have to a submit the final report graded by SIGHT Teaching team, Faculty advisors and SIGHT partners. Enrollment in the project course requires approval of the course instructor. Role: Course Instructor Number of students: 4 Programmes: TBD X Department of Computer Science and Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Spring, 2016/17 COMP1022P Introduction to Computing with Java This course is designed to equip students with the fundamental concepts of programming elements and data abstraction using Java. Students will learn how to write procedural programs using variables, arrays, control statements, loops, recursion, data abstraction and objects using an integrated development environment. Role: Course Instructor (L1 & L2) Number of students: 89 Programmes: Common Core (QR) for 4-Year Programs COMP2012 Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures To learn the fundamental concepts and techniques behind object-oriented programming. They include: abstract data types; creation, initialization, and destruction of objects; class hierarchies; polymorphism, inheritance and dynamic binding; generic programming using templates. To learn the object-oriented view of data structures: linked lists, queues, stacks, trees, and algorithms such as searching, sorting, and hashing algorithms. Role: Course Instructor (L3 & L4) Number of students: 170 Programmes: BEng. in Computer Science, BEng. in Computer Engineering, etc. X Department of Computer Science and Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Fall, 2016/17 COMP2012 Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures To learn the fundamental concepts and techniques behind object-oriented programming. They include: abstract data types; creation, initialization, and destruction of objects; class hierarchies; polymorphism, inheritance and dynamic binding; generic programming using templates. To learn the object-oriented view of data structures: linked lists, queues, stacks, trees, and algorithms such as searching, sorting, and hashing algorithms. Role: Course Instructor (L2) Number of students: 101 Programmes: BEng. in Computer Science, BEng. in Computer Engineering, etc. COMP3511 Operating Systems Principles, purpose and structure of operating systems; processes, threads, and multi-threaded programming; CPU scheduling; synchronization, mutual exclusion; memory management and virtual memory; device management; file systems, security and protection. Role: Course Instructor (L2) Number of students: 110 Programmes: BEng. in Computer Science, BEng. in Computer Engineering, etc. X Department of Computer Science and Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Spring, 2015/16 COMP1022P Introduction to Computing with Java This course is designed to equip students with the fundamental concepts of programming elements and data abstraction using Java. Students will learn how to write procedural programs using variables, arrays, control statements, loops, recursion, data abstraction and objects using an integrated development environment. Role: Course Instructor (L2 & L3) Number of students: 81 Programmes: Common Core (QR) for 4-Year Programs COMP2012 Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures To learn the fundamental concepts and techniques behind object-oriented programming. They include: abstract data types; creation, initialization, and destruction of objects; class hierarchies; polymorphism, inheritance and dynamic binding; generic programming using templates. To learn the object-oriented view of data structures: linked lists, queues, stacks, trees, and algorithms such as searching, sorting, and hashing algorithms. Role: Course Instructor (L3 & L4) Number of students: 141 Programmes: BEng. in Computer Science, BEng. in Computer Engineering, etc. Courses Taught at the School of Professional Education and Executive Development, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Bachelor of Science (Honours) Scheme in Applied Sciences (with specialism in Information Systems anb Web Technologies / Statistics and Data Sciences) awarded by PolyU SPEED Semester 1 2015/16 (Details) SPD2305 Calculus SPD2307 Computer Programming Concepts SPD3255 Discrete Structures SPD4515 Computer Security Semester 2 2014/15 (Details) SPD3245 Web Systems and Technologies Bachelor of Arts (Honours) in Business Management awarded by Northumbria University, UK Semester 1 2015/16 (Details) NX315 Professional Project [ Northumbria University, UK ] Semester 2 2014/15 (Details) NX315 Professional Project [ Northumbria University, UK ] X School of Professional Education and Executive Development, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Semester 1, 2015/16 SPD2305 Calculus (HHB Campus) Roles: Course Leader & Instructor Number of students: 26 Programmes: BSc (Hons) in Applied Sciences (Information Systems and Web Technologies, Statistics and Data Sciences) SPD2307 Computer Programming Concepts (HHB Campus) Roles: Course Leader & Instructor Number of students: 21 Programmes: BSc (Hons) in Applied Sciences (Information Systems and Web Technologies, Statistics and Data Sciences) SPD3255 Discrete Structures (HHB Campus) Roles: Course Leader & Instructor Number of students: 26 Programmes: BSc (Hons) in Applied Sciences (Statistics and Data Sciences) SPD4515 Computer Security (HHB Campus) Roles: Course Leader & Instructor Number of students: 40 Programmes: BSc (Hons) in Applied Sciences (Information Systems and Web Technologies) NX315 Professional Project (HHB Campus) Roles: Instructor Number of students: 50 Programmes: BA (Hons) in Business Management X School of Professional Education and Executive Development, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Semester 2, 2014/15 SPD3245 Web Systems and Technologies (HHB Campus) Roles: Course Leader & Instructor Number of students: 41 Programmes: BSc (Hons) in Applied Sciences (Information Systems and Web Technologies) NX315 Professional Project (HHB Campus) Roles: Instructor Number of students: 50 Programmes: BA (Hons) in Business Management Courses Taught at the Community College of City University (aka UOW College of Hong Kong) Division of Applied Science and Technology Semester A 2014/15 (Details) AST10106 - Introduction to Programming (CityU Campus) AST20105 - Data Structures and Algorithms (CityU Campus) AST20404 - Application for Portable Devices (CityU Campus) * Only Served as Course Examiner Semester B 2013/14 (Details) AST21104 - User-Centered Design and Testing (CityU Campus) AST21105 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design (CityU Campus) AST20404 - Information Systems in Business (CityU Campus) * Only Served as Course Examiner Semester A 2013/14 (Details) AST10106 - Introduction to Programming (CityU Campus) AST20105 - Data Structures and Algorithms (CityU Campus) AST20207 - Application for Portable Devices (CityU Campus) * Only Served as Course Examiner Semester B 2012/13 (Details) DCO21104 - User-Centered Design and Testing (CityU Campus) DCO21105 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design (CityU Campus) Semester A 2012/13 (Details) DCO10106 - Introduction to Programming (CityU Campus) DCO20105 - Data Structures and Algorithms (CityU Campus) DCO20501 - Computer Graphics (CityU Campus) * Only Served as Course Examiner Division of Computer Studies (Part-Time) Semester A 2005/06 DCO20805 - Data Structures and Algorithms (FALL 2005) This course focuses on understanding the dependence of execution time, bandwidth and memory requirements on the data structures and algorithms chosen. Students learn to reason informally about algorithm and data structure correctness and complexity. Primary emphasis is given to intelligent selection of algorithms and representations. Programming assignments use C++ and the Standard Template Library. Division of Computer Studies Semester B 2011/12 (Details) DCO10105 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design (CityU Campus) DCO10112 - Mathematical Analysis (CityU Campus) DCO20503 - 3D Modeling and Computer Animation (CityU Campus) * Only Served as Course Examiner Semester A 2011/12 (Details) DCO10103 - Programming in Java (CityU Campus) DCO10111 - Basic Calculus and Linear Algebra (CityU Campus) DCO20105 - Data Structures and Algorithms (CityU Campus) * Only Served as Course Examiner DCO20501 - Computer Graphics (CityU Campus) Summer Term 2011 (Details) Summer Workshop: Introduction to C# Programming Summer Workshop: Fundamentals of Web Programming Summer Workshop: Android Apps Development DCO10213 - Environmental Studies Lab Semester B 2010/11 (Details) DCO10105 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design (CityU Campus) DCO10112 - Mathematical Analysis (CityU Campus) DCO10211 - Biology (Telford Campus) - Only Served as Course Examiner DCO20503 - 3D Modeling and Computer Animation (CityU Campus) * Only Served as Course Examiner Semester A 2010/11 (Details) DCO10103 - Programming in Java (CityU Campus) DCO10105 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design (Telford Campus) DCO20105 - Data Structures and Algorithms (CityU Campus) * Only Served as Course Examiner DCO20501 - Computer Graphics (CityU Campus) Summer Term 2010 (Details) Summer Workshop - Web Programming Fundamentals Summer Workshop - C# Application Development Summer Workshop - Introduction to Android Apps DCO10213 - Environmental Studies Lab Semester B 2009/10 (Details) DCO10103 - Programming in Java (CityU Campus) DCO10105 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design (CityU Campus) DCO20503 - 3D Modeling and Computer Animation (CityU Campus) DCO10211 - Biology (Telford Campus) Only served as course examiner DCO20405 - Advanced Database Administration and Networking (CityU Campus) * Only Served as Course Examiner Semester A 2009/10 (Details) DCO10103 - Programming in Java (CityU Campus and Telford Annex) DCO10105 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design (Telford Campus) DCO20501 - Computer Graphics (CItyU Campus) DCO10210 - Chemistry (Telford Campus) * Only offered extra tutorials for assisting students without chemistry background Summer Term 2009 (Details) Summer Workshop - PHP + MySQL Programming Summer Workshop - Image Morphing and Panorama Production Summer Workshop - JavaScript Programming DCO10213 - Environmental Studies Lab Semester B 2008/09 (Details) DCO10105 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design (CityU Campus) DCO10112 - Mathematical Analysis (CityU Campus) DCO11130 - Introduction to e-Commerce (Telford Campus) DCO20405 - Advanced Database Administration and Networking (CityU Campus) Semester A 2008/09 (Details) DCO10103 - Programming in Java (CityU Campus and Telford Annex) DCO21110 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design (Telford Campus) X Division of Applied Science and Technology, Community College of City University Semester A, 2014/15 AST10106 - Introduction to Programming (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 275 Programmes: AENG, AScISD & AScNSA AST20105 - Data Structures and Algorithms (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Tutor Number of students: 220 Programmes: AENG, AScISD & AScNSA AST20207 - Application for Portable Devices (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner Number of students: 66 Programmes: AScISD & AScNSA X Division of Applied Science and Technology, Community College of City University Semester A 2013/14 AST10106 - Introduction to Programming (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 225 Programmes: AENG, AScISD & AScNSA AST20105 - Data Structures and Algorithms (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 222 Programmes: AENG, AScISD & AScNSA AST20207 - Application for Portable Devices (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner Number of students: 66 Programmes: AScISD & AScNSA Semester B 2013/14 AST20204 - Information Systems in Business (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner Number of students: 50 Programmes: AScISD AST21104 - User-Centered Design and Testing(CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 59 Programmes: AScISD AST21105 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design(CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 212 Programmes: AENG, AScISD & AScNSA Summer 2014 Summer Workshop: Front-End Programming with JavaScript and jQuery (24-25, 27 July, 7-9 July 2014) This summer programming workshop aims to introduce students a popuar client-side script for the development of dynamic webpages. Topics to be covered include: JavaScript Introduction to JavaScript Quick review of programming constructs: Data types and variables Arithmetic, relational and logic operators Control structures (branching and looping) Arrays and functions Object-Oriented Programming Essentials of JavaScript Document Object Model (DOM) Event handling Canvas programming jQuery Introduction to jQuery jQuery setup Syntax Selectors Events Effects CSS manipulation DOM manipulation Summer Workshop: Visual Basic for Applications (2-4 July, 14-16 July 2014) This summer programming workshop aims to introduce students a popuar language for solving real world problems.Topics to be covered include: Overview of Visual Basic for Application (VBA) VBA Fundamentals Terminology, Object Model, Worksheets, etc. VBA Programming Environment Brief review of programming fundamentals for VBA Variables and constants Branching and looping Arrays Built-in functions and operators User-defined functions Procedures OOP concept: Objects, methods and properties Error handling Using Excel objects Creating and programming custom forms VBA and charts Applications development X Division of Applied Science and Technology, Community College of City University Semester A 2012/13 DCO10106 - Introduction to Programming (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 200 Programmes: AENG, AScISD & AScNSA DCO20105 - Data Structures and Algorithms (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 213 Programmes: AENG, AScISD & AScNSA DCO20501 - Comuter Graphics (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner Number of students: 72 Programmes: AScCIMP Semester B 2012/13 DCO21104 - User-Centered Design and Testing(CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 63 Programmes: AScISD DCO21105 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design(CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 226 Programmes: AENG, AScISD & AScNSA Summer 2013 Summer Workshop: Visual Basic for Applications This summer programming workshop aims to introduce students a popuar language for solving real world problems.Topics to be covered include: Overview of Visual Basic for Application (VBA) VBA Fundamentals Terminology, Object Model, Worksheets, etc. VBA Programming Environment Brief review of programming fundamentals for VBA Variables and constants Branching and looping Arrays Built-in functions and operators User-defined functions Procedures OOP concept: Objects, methods and properties Error handling Using Excel objects Creating and programming custom forms VBA and charts Applications development X Division of Computer Studies, Community College of City University Semester A 2011/12 DCO10103 - Programming in Java (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 224 Programmes: AENG, AScISD & AScNSA DCO10111 - Basic Calculus and Linear Algebra (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 158 Programmes: AScABS & AENG DCO20105 - Data Structures and Algorithms (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner Number of students: 182 Programmes: AENG, AScISD & AScNSA DCO20501 - Comuter Graphics (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 73 Programmes: AScCIMP Semester B 2011/12 DCO10105 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 219 Programmes: AENG, AScISD & AScNSA DCO10112 - Mathematical Analysis (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 153 Programmes: AScABS & AENG DCO20503 - 3D Modeling and Computer Animation (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner Number of students: 67 Programmes: AScCIMP X Division of Computer Studies, Community College of City University Semester A 2010/11 DCO10103 - Programming in Java (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 189 Programmes: AENG, AScISD & AScNSA DCO10105 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design (Telford Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 19 Programmes: AScIT DCO20105 - Data Structures and Algorithms (CityU Campus) The course aims to develop students (1) an appreciation of the dependency of execution time, bandwidth and memory requirements in the choice of data structure and algorithms employed; (2) the ability to reason informally about an algorithhm, data structure correctness, efficiency and complexity; (3) an aptitude for the intelligent selection of algorithms, representations, and for the intelligent use of an object-oriented language and its library. Roles: Course Examiner Number of students: 108 Programmes: AENG, AScISD & AScNSA DCO20501 - Computer Graphics (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 49 Programmes: AScCIMP Semester B 2010/11 DCO10105 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 186 Programmes: AENG, AScISD & AScNSA DCO10112 - Mathematical Analysis (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 151 Programmes: AENG & AScABS DCO10211 - Biology (Telford Campus) Roles: Course Examiner Number of students: 115 Programmes: AScES DCO20503 - 3D Modeling and Computer Animination (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner Number of students: 47 Programmes: AScCIMP Summer 2011 Summer Workshop: Introduction to C# Programming (20 June 2011) This summer programming workshop aims to help students who have taken a course in OOP to manage one more popular programming language in a short time frame. Topics to be covered include: Comparisons among C#, C++ and Java, Delegates, Events and Exception Handling andGUI Concepts. In addition, practices on Graphics and Multimedia aspects will also be given during the lesson so as to give you a thorough understanding on the application development process. Number of students enrolled: 30 DCO students + 6 graduates of AOAL (Currently with BeELTM, CityU) = 36 No. of ENG students: 8 No. of ES students: 1 No. of ISD students: 15 No. of NSA students: 6 Summer Workshop: Fundamentals of Web Programming (27-28 June 2011) This summer programming workshop aims to equip students with the ability to construct dynamic websites using popular script languages. Contents to be covered include: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP with DB support, and Session Control. This workshop lasted for 2 consecutive days. Theory of some web technology was introduced together with some hands-on practice. Number of students enrolled: 39 DCO students No. of CIMP students: 1 No. of ENG students: 14 No. of ES students: 1 No. of ISD students: 15 No. of NSA students: 8 Summer Workshop: Android Apps Development (29 June 2011) This summer workshop aims to introduce students the basics of mobile apps development with the use of Eclipse and Android SDK. This is a one day workshop. Number of students enrolled: 43 DCO students No. of CIMP students: 1 No. of ENG students: 14 No. of ES students: 1 No. of ISD students: 20 No. of NSA students: 7 X Division of Computer Studies, Community College of City University Semester A 2009/10 DCO10103 - Programming in Java (CityU Campus & Telford Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 237 Programmes: AENG, AScABS, AScCIMP, AScISD, AScIT & AScNSA DCO10105 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design (Telford Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 17 Programmes: AScIT DCO20501 - Computer Graphics (CityU Campus) This course aims at preparing students with concepts, algorithms and implementations of 2-D and 3-D computer graphics; conceptual and technical foundations in digital media for further pursuance in digital modelling, computer animation and virtual reality; and understanding of physical laws of motion and lighting, as well as psychological perception of stationary or moving objects. Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 38 Programmes: AScCIMP DCO10210 - Chemistry (Telford Campus) Gave tutorials to enrich students' background on chemistry. This course is designed to present an introduction to general chemistry. This course aims to: Provide students a breath understanding of the major concepts of chemistry; and Train students to be cometent in solving general chemistry problems. Role: Year tutor (Extra tutorials for assisting students without chemistry background) Number of students: 30 Programmes: AScES Semester B 2009/10 DCO10103 - Programming in Java (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 63 Programmes: AScABS & AScECWT DCO10105 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 202 Programmes: AENG, AScCIMP, AScISD & AScNSA DCO20503 - 3D Modeling and Computer Animination (CityU Campus) The aims of this course are to introduce the art and science of high-end computer animation, and to prepare an individual ready for employment in the digital media industry as a digital effects and computer animation artist. This course also aims at developing student with creative approaches in 3D model and animation creation. This course emphasizes on practical training. Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 42 Programmes: AScCIMP DCO10211 - Biology (Telford Campus) This course is designed to present an introduction to general biology. This course aims to introduce students the fundamental principles of biology with emphasis on the molecular and cellular basis of life. Roles: Course Examiner Number of students: 88 Programmes: AScES DCO20405 - Advanced Database Administration and Networking (CityU Campus) Roles: Course Examiner Number of students: 21 Programmes: AScISD Summer 2010 Summer Workshop: Web Programming Fundamentals (21-23 July 2010) This summer programming workshop aims to prepare students for their Final Year Project (FYP) as well as to introduce the foundation of web programming. This workshop lasted for 3 consecutive days. Theory of some web technology was introduced together with some hands-on practice. Summer Workshop: C# Application Development (9 August 2010) This summer programming workshop aims to give students an overview on Windows application development using one of the most popular programming languages, C# (pronounced as "C Sharp"). This is a one day workshop. During the class, students will be introduced to Visual Studio .NET IDE, exception handling and GUI concept. In addition, practices on Graphics and Multimedia aspects will also be given during the lesson so as to give you a thorough understanding on the application development process. Summer Workshop: Introduction to Android Apps (18 August 2010) Google Android bases on Linux kernel, is one of the most popular mobile OS nowadays. This workshop aims to introduce students the basics of Android and the development process of Android mobile applications. This is a one day workshp. During the class, students will be introduced to: (1) Eclipse IDE, (2) Android application framework and (3) UI design and coding. DCO10213 - Environmental Studies Lab This course aims to provide students with practical hand-on experience in: using basic laboratory experiments to obtain chemical and bacteriological data on air and water samples; and analyzing chemical and bacteriological data from air and water samples to determine its environmental significance. Roles: Course Examiner Number of students: 76 Programmes: AScES X Division of Computer Studies, Community College of City University Semester A 2008/09 DCO10103 - Programming in Java (CityU Campus & Telford Campus) The aims of this course is to introduce the concepts and techniques of problem solving through structured modular and object-oriented programming. The course also provides students with the knowledge, skills and practical experience in using an object-oriented programming language. It cultivates good programming styles and disciplines. Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 183 Programmes: AENG, AScCIMP, AScDME, AScISD, AScIT & AScNSA DCO21110 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design (Telford Campus) This course aims to introduce students to the problem solving technique by means of object-oriented design and implementation; as well as to advance students skills in a second programming course. Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 13 Programmes: AScIT Semester B 2008/09 DCO10105 - Object-Oriented Programming and Design (CityU Campus) The aims of this course are to provide and enrich students with knowledge, skills and practical experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) using C++, and might be also another OOP language; to introduce the concepts and techniques of object-oriented design and analysis; and to cultivate good programming style and descipline for program maintainability and reusability. Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 153 Programmes: AENG, AScCIMP, AScDME, AScISD & AScNSA DCO10112 - Mathematical Analysis (CityU Campus) This course aims to introduce important ideas in Linear Algebra, Advanced Calculus and Ordinary Differential Equations necessary for an understanding of their application to Business and Engineering. It will help students develop the ability to think quantitatively and analyse problems critically. Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 67 Programmes: AENG & AScABS DCO20405 - Advanced Database Administration and Networking (CityU Campus) The aims of this course are to introduce to students the concept of managing complex networks for a database; the key concept of the network layered architecture; the issues of web database access through the Internet networking; the structures and processes for backup and recovery of a database and the strategies for backup and recovery; and issues of performance tuning in different environments. Roles: Course Examiner & Instructor Number of students: 9 Programmes: AScISD DCO11130 - Introduction to e-Commerce (Telford Campus) The aim of this course is to provide students with basic knowledge and understanding about technologies underlying the development and implementation of quality software for computer-based business information systems in general and e-business systems in particular. Roles: Instructor Number of students: 30 Programmes: AScAOAL Summer 2009 Summer Workshop: PHP + MySQL Programming (5-7 August 2009, AEng, AScISD, AScNSA, AScIT) This summer programming workshop aims to prepare students for their Final Year Project (FYP) as well as to introduce thefoundation of web programming. This workshop lasted for 3 consecutive days. Theory of some web technology was introduced together with some hands-on practice. Summer Workshop: Image Morphing and Panorama Production (17 August 2009) This summer programming workshop aims to introduce students the idea and the production of image morphing and panorama. This workshop lasted for one day. Theory of morphing and panorama was discussed together with some hands-on practice. Summer Workshop: Javascript Programming (20-21 August 2009) This summer programming workshop aims to prepare students for their Final Year Project (FYP) as well as to introduce the foundation of web programming, particularly on JavaScript programming. This workshop will last for 2 consecutive days. Theory of some web technology will be discussed together with some hands-on practice. Courses Taught at Nanyang Technological University, Singapore Division of Computer Science, School of Computer Engineering Fall Semester 2006/07 CPE/CSC102 - Introduction to Java Programming Spring Semester 2006/07 CPE207 - Software Engineering Courses Taught at Hong Kong College of Technology Division of Computer Science and Information Technology (Part-Time) Spring Semester 2008/09 CS324 - Multimedia Technology Fundamentals DT203 - PHP Websites Techniques Administration Learn more about my administrative experience HKUST PolyU SPEED CCCU Administrative Duties at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Department of Computer Science, School of Engineering Information Technology Enrichment Project Course for Gifted Students (SPRING 2005) Link Newspaper clipping (Apple Daily) - Link Newspaper clipping (Oriental Daily) - Link Newspaper clipping (Sun Daily) - Link UST press - Link Information Technology Enhancement Program for Gifted Students (SPRING 2005) HKUST Engineering Summer Camp for Honour Students (SPRING 2005) Link Youth IT Summer Camp 2005 Joint School Computer Exhibition 2005 (SPRING 2005) Jointly organized by Queen's College, Ying Wa Girls' school, St Paul's Co-educational College & Belilios Public School Assisted in Undergraduate Programme Promotion, Implementation and Administration Department of Computer Science and Engineering, School of Engineering Academic Year 2018/2019 (Details) Member of the Engineering School Board Member of CSE Curriculum and Teaching Innovation Committee Academic Advisor of Computer Science Students Advisor of Student Innovation for Global Health Technology ( SIGHT ) Principal Investigator of the Project - The Development of an Online Assessment Platform (Funded by the School of Engineering, HKUST - HKD482,970) Academic Year 2017/2018 (Details) Member of the Engineering School Board Interview Panel Member of Engineering Exploration Day Member of CSE Undergraduate Committee Member of CSE Curriculum and Teaching Innovation Committee Academic Advisor of Computer Science Students Advisor of Student Innovation for Global Health Technology ( SIGHT ) Academic Year 2016/2017 (Details) Member of the Engineering School Board Academic Advisor of Computer Science Students Interview Panel Member of Engineering Exploration Day Advisor of Student Innovation for Global Health Technology ( SIGHT ) Academic Year 2015/2016 (Details) Member of the Engineering School Board Faculty Member of Computer Engineering Academic Advisor of Computer Engineering Students X Department of Computer Science and Engineering, School of Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Administrative Duties, Academic Year 2018/19 School Roles Member of the Engineering School Board Departmental Roles Faculty Member of Computer Science and Engineering Member of CSE Curriculum and Teaching Innovation Committee Academic Advisor of Computer Science Students Other Roles Advisor of Student Innovation for Global Health Technology (SIGHT) Seminars / Workshops / Ceremonies / Other Events Attended Procession Party for MSc Congregation (November 16) The HKIE Environmental Division Annual Reception (November 8) Dean of Engineering Scholarship Award Presentation Ceremony 2018 (October 30) Engineering School Board Meeting (October 22) Kick-off Ceremony of "Mental Health Matters - Promoting Student Mental Health: A State of Well-being" (October 10) Departmental Meetings (September 28, October 19, November 30) CaTIC Meetings (September 26, October 29, December 7) Administrative Services Project Judge, SIGHT Camp Roadshow (22 November 2018) Principal Investigator of the Project: The Development of an Online Assessment Platform (Funded by the School of Engineering, HKUST) (HKD482,970) Instructor of CSESS Workshop organized by Computer Science and Engineering Students' Society, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Student Union (4 October 2018) Instructor of DIY Workshop on Info Day 2018 (29 September 2018) Website Instructor of Engineering Workshop for HKUST Summer Camp 2018 - "Make an On Screen Piano to Play Your Favorite Music" organized by Computer Science and Engineering (29 June 2018) Website Instructor of Briefing Session for Engineering Workshop of HKUST Summer Camp 2018 (22 June 2018) Guest of Rehearsal Session for FYP Group for ASM Technology Award 2018 (11 June 2018) Final Year Project Supervisions Final Year Project Management System (Remastered) (SU Heng, DEL MUNDO Gian Miguel Sero, MOHAMAD Randitya Setyawan, WU Yun-ju) Augmented Reality Store Platform (KOSASIH Angelica, LIU Chi Yan, SUHARTONO Kristian) Microsurgery Mobile VR Simulation Platform (Co-supervised with Dr. SONG Shenghui) (DONG Tian, LEUNG Ka Wai Aidan, NG Tsz Kin, SIU Ho Lam, TUNG Ka Kan) A Mobile App for Reducing Food Waste (Co-supervised with Dr. LAM Ngok) (CHUGH Rhea, IVANOV Metodi Dimitrov, GUNAWAN Calvinthio, BRADLEY Edward Alan) Multiplayer VR Game Development with Leap Motion (Co-supervised with Dr. CHAN Ki Cecia) (LAU Kwun Pong, CHAN Hiu Tung, TAM Tung Man, CHOW Ka Chun) Independent Work Project Recognising emotional intensities of compound emotion categories through detecting facial landmarks and body gestures (MAK Tsz Wing Tiffany) Professional Project Consultations Student Innovation for Global Health Technology (SIGHT) Project MED EASY - Electronics Health Record System X Department of Computer Science and Engineering, School of Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Administrative Duties, Academic Year 2017/18 School Roles Member of the Engineering School Board Interview Panel Member of Engineering Exploration Day Departmental Roles Faculty Member of Computer Science and Engineering Member of CSE Undergraduate Committee Member of CSE Curriculum and Teaching Innovation Committee Academic Advisor of Computer Science Students Other Roles Advisor of Student Innovation for Global Health Technology (SIGHT) Seminars / Workshops / Ceremonies / Other Events Attended Departmental Meetings (15 September 2017, 29 September 2017, 17 November 2017, 23 February 2018, 23 March 2018, 27 April 2018, 25 May 2018) Administrative Services Instructor of Engineering Workshop for HKUST Summer Camp 2017 - "Make an On Screen Piano to Play Your Favorite Music" organized by Computer Science and Engineering (30 June 2017) Website Instructor of CPEG Workshop organized by Computer Engineering Students' Society, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Student Union (22 November 2017) Guest of the Dean of Engineering Scholarship Presentation Ceremony 2017 (30 November 2017) Guest of CSE Annual Dinner (8 March 2018) Guest of the Inauguration Ceremony of Chinese Folk Art Society (27 March 2018) Guest of the President's Cup Presentation (30 April 2018) Guest of the President's Cuo Awardee's Meeting (14 May 2018) Final Year Project Supervisions Virtual Reality Game Development using Unity and Leap Moption / Kinect (LEE Ho Ting, KEUNG Bryan, LAM Jouq Hang Hendersen, NG Man Yan) Virtual Reality Game Development using Unity and Leap Motion / Kinect (WONG Man Ting, PANG Hong Ching, KOON Ka Ho, WONG Yuk Fong) A Mobile App using AR and Location-based Technologies for Promoting Self-motivated Learning (CHENG Wang On, WONG Cheuk Yie Ezekiel, NG Brandon Chun Yin, LEUNG Wai Hin) Virtual Reality Education Software for Kindergarten / Primary School Students (CHEUNG Sze Po, CHAN Tak Sing, LO Ka Leung, MO Chun Yuen) Virtual Reality Game Development using Unity and Leap Motion / Kinect (CHONG Ka Yan, LEE Chun Ho, WONG Hin Yung, LIU Hoi Yi Audrey) Co-supervised with Dr. LAM Ngok Autonomous Domestic Water Purification System with Mobile Application (LEE Dustin, FOK Ming Kit, LEE Ho Long Barry, FUNG Ka Yi) Co-supervised with Prof. LAM Frank L.Y. Champion Award of HKIE Environmental Division Prize for Best Final Year Environmental Project 2017/18 ( Department news ) ASM Technology Award 2018: Project Nomination Award, Peer Recognition Award ( Photo ) Gold Award of 2018 President's Cup 2nd Runner-up in the Young Professionals Exhibition & Competition 2018 (YPEC 2018) (Undergraduate Section) ( Department news ) Best Poster Award (aka Best FYP Award) of the Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering Best FYP Award of the Department of Computer Science and Engineering Cyberport University Partnership Programme (CUPP) RESTRIP (HUANG Yining, Caroline) HKUST President's Cup Project Supervision Autonomous Domestic Water Purification System with Mobile Application (FUNG Ka Yi, LEE Ho Long Barry, LEE Dustin, FOK Ming Kit) Gold Award , Department news Award(s) One of the Best Ten Lecturers by HKUST Undergraduate Students in the Best Ten Lecturers Election 2017 (Prize presented on 28 November 2017) Department news: Here Professional Project Consultations Student Innovation for Global Health Technology (SIGHT) Project MED EASY - Electronics Health Record System ISACA Student Group Annual Case Competition 2018 (CHENG Ho Sing Michael) Flash (2nd Runner Up out of the 96 Participating Teams) X Department of Computer Science and Engineering, School of Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Administrative Duties, Academic Year 2016/17 School Roles Member of the Engineering School Board Interview Panel Member of Engineering Exploration Day Departmental Roles Faculty Member of Computer Science and Engineering Academic Advisor of Computer Science Students Other Roles Advisor of Student Innovation for Global Health Technology (SIGHT) Seminars / Workshops / Ceremonies / Other Events Attended Departmental Meetings (September 9, November 25, February 17, March 10, April 21) New Faculty Orientation Session 6: ITSC Support and PRS for Teaching (17 August 2016) Session 5: Canvas Basic (17 August 2016) Session 4: Sharing from HKUST Professors(16 August 2016) Session 3: Learning Assessment and Getting Feedback on Your Teaching (16 August 2016) Administrative Services Document Preparation for HKIE Accreditation Serving as the Interview Panel Member of Engineering Exploration Day (27 November 2016) Workshop Instructor of "Responsive Web Design" organized by Computer Science and Engineering Students' Society, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Student Union (17 November 2016) Workshop Instructor of "Bringing 2D Images Into Life" organized by Computer Engineering Students' Society, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Student Union (18 October 2016) Final Year Project Supervisions Virtual Reality Game Development using Unity and Leap Motion ("Return") (CHAN Long Hei Stanley, HUANG Jiaxi, MAK Wing Tao, NGO Yu Ki) Virtual Reality Game Development using Unity and Leap Motion ("Treasure Island") (LEE Chun On, SIN Wing Lam, WONG Chun Yin) Best FYP Award Project Page Responsive Image Processing Mobile Application ("Spark") (LAM Chak Tim, LAM Cheuk Ming, LUI Chun Wang, WONG Chau Shing) Using Technology to Masquerade the User's Face ("FaceT") (CHIU Tsz Tsun, CHOY Ka Wai Jocelyn, LO Leong Cheung, NG Kai Hong) Best FYP Award Project Page Document Imaging System using Kinect (LAM Wai Hin, TSE Cheuk Hei, YUEN Yiu Tung) Real-time Recognition and Control for Self-driving Racing Car HKUST President's Cup Project Supervision A Novel, Decentralized Hardware & Software Infrastructure for Creating Disaster-proof, Scalable, and Secure Real-time Big-data IoT Solutions (IWASAKI Kenta and TANUBRATA Hans Ryan) Professional Project Consultations Student Innovation for Global Health Technology (SIGHT) Project EASY MED - Electronics Health Record System X Department of Computer Science and Engineering, School of Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Administrative Duties, Academic Year 2015/16 School Roles Member of the Engineering School Board Departmental Roles Faculty Member of Computer Science and Engineering Faculty Member of Computer Engineering Academic Advisor of Computer Engineering Students Seminars / Workshops / Ceremonies / Other Events Attended Departmental Meetings (26 April, 1 April, 29 April 2016) The Fifty-eight (58th) HKUST Engineering School Board Meeting (23 May 2016) Computer Engineering Society Farewell Party (6 May 2016) SIGHT Final Project Presentation (5 May 2016) Seminar and Workshop Series on Digital Entainment and Toy Computing - From Digital to Wearable Entertainments co-organized by Caritas Institute of Higher Education and The Open University of Hong Kong (22 February 2016) Part 1: Computational Manga and Anime: Efficient Production and Digital Migration (Prof. Tien-Tsin Wong, Professor of Computer Science and Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong) Part 2: Recent Progress on Ring-Type Wearable Devices and its Applications (Prof. Zixue Cheng, Professor of the Division of Computer Engineering, School of Computer Science and Engineering, The University of Aizu, Japan) Seminar and Workshop Series on Digital Entainment and Toy Computing - Advances in 3D Media Techniques co-organized by Caritas Institute of Higher Education and The Open University of Hong Kong (22 February 2016) Part 1: Cyberspatial Media: 3D Computer Graphics and Audio, Professor of Spatial Media Group, Computer Arts Lab., The University of Aizu, Japan) Part 2: Review of Stereoscopic Imaging Methods (Dr. Benson Lam Shu-Yan, Assistant Professor of the Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Hang Seng Management College) Administrative Services Leading a Visit to Bank East Asia (11 March 2016) College / Programme Activities Organizer The Graphical User Interface Design Contest for the "Robot War" Game (COMP2012, Spring 2016) Final Year Project Supervisions Document Imaging System using Digital Camera and Kinect (LAM Wai Hin, TSE Cheuk Hei, YUEN Yiu Tung) Virtual Reality Game Development using Unity and Leap Motion #1 (LEE Chun On, SIN Wing Lam, WONG Chun Yin) Propose your Own App Project (CHIU Tsz Tsun, CHOY Ka Wai Jocelyn, LO Leong Cheung, NG Kai Hong) Responsive Web-based Image Processing Tool (LAM Chak Tim, LAM Cheuk Ming, LUI Chun Wang, WONG Chau Shing) Virtual Reality Game Development using Unity and Leap Motion #2 (CHAN Long Hei Stanley, HUANG Jiaxi, MAK Wing Tao, NGO Yu Ki) Professional Project Consultations Collegiate Contest of Educational Technology (CCET2016): CalliLearning (TSE Tin Chi, WAN Ka Wa, LAM Tsz Ching, GENG Sihua), PolyU SPEED Collegiate Contest of Educational Technology (CCET2016): Kinect Sport System for Tai Chi (CHAN Kwan Wing, CHEUNG Chi Ho, LEE Chun Wing, YIM Kam Yeung), PolyU SPEED Winner Administrative Duties at the School of Professional Education and Executive Development, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Academic Year 2015/16 (Details) School and Programme Roles Member of Employability Workgroup Member of Scheme Executive Group - Bachelor of Science (Hons) Scheme in Applied Sciences Programme Planning Team Member of Bachelor of Science (Hons) Scheme in Applied Sciences (Statistics and Computing) Academic Year 2014/15 (Details) School and Programme Roles Member of Employability Workgroup Member of Scheme Executive Group - Bachelor of Science (Hons) Scheme in Applied Sciences X School of Professional Education and Executive Development, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Administrative Duties, Academic Year 2015/16 School and Programme Roles Member of Employability Workgroup Member of Scheme Executive Group - Bachelor of Science (Hons) Scheme in Applied Sciences Programme Planning Team Member of Bachelor of Science (Hons) Scheme in Applied Sciences (Statistics and Computing) Bachelor of Science (Hons) Scheme in Applied Sciences (Statistics and Computing) has been renamed to Bachelor of Science (Hons) Scheme in Applied Sciences (Statistics and Data Science) Seminars / Workshops / Ceremonies / Other Events Attended Paperless Solution for SARP and BoE Meeting (8 September 2015) Administrative Services Serving as Subject Writer for Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Applied Science (Information Systems & Web Technologies) (10 October 2015) SPDXXXX Mobile Application Development Submitting Proposals GUR Subject: Digital Literacy for Contemporary Lifestyle and Workplace (14 August 2015) SPDXXXX Web Design for Marketers (A Course for Digital Marketing Scheme) (25 December 2015) Attended a Meeting on Student Employability (21 August 2015) College / Programme Activities Organizer Internship Programme for Student in Bachelor of Science in Applied Science (Information Systems and Web Technologies) (MTel Summer Placement Scholarship 2015) (mid of June to end of August 2015) Collegiate Contest of Educational Technology (CCET2016) Supervision CalliLearning (TSE Tin Chi, WAN Ka Wa, LAM Tsz Ching, GENG Sihua) Kinect Sport System for Tai Chi (CHAN Kwan Wing, CHEUNG Chi Ho, LEE Chun Wing, YIM Kam Yeung) Winner X School of Professional Education and Executive Development, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Administrative Duties, Academic Year 2014/15 School and Programme Roles Member of Employability Workgroup Member of Scheme Executive Group - Bachelor of Science (Hons) Scheme in Applied Sciences Seminars / Workshops / Ceremonies / Other Events Attended 2nd Workshop on Scholarly and Research Activities (5 January 2015) Moodle Training Workshops for Staff (Using Excel to Give Graing to Student in Moodle) (12 January 2015) Moodle Training Workshops for Staff (Basic for Moodle 2.5) (12 January 2015) Research Seminar: Generation of Innovative Research Ideas using TRIZ method (13 January 2015) Moodle Training Workshops for Staff (Demonstration Workshop on Moodle Online Exercises (14 January 2015) Using Turnitin to Check Originality on Students' Work in Moodle (14 January 2015) Basic Training and Collection of iPad (14 January 2015) CPCE Safety Induction Training (16 January 2015) What's New with the Student Feedback Questionnaire (SFQ) (19 January 2015) Administrative Services Serving as Subject Writer for Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Applied Science (Statistics & Computing) (16 December 2014) SPD3255 Discrete Structures SPD4537 Data Structures and Algorithms Serving as Invited Speaker Information Seminar for AD Students (Associate of Engineering, Associate of Science in Information Systems Development, and Associate of Science in Network and Systems Administration) at the Division of Applied Science and Technology, Community College of City University (12 January 2015) Attended an Initial Meeting for Graduate Survey 2015 (8 January 2015) Attended a Meeting for Cluster of Science, Technology and Health Studies (13 January 2015) Administrative Duties at the Community College of City University (aka UOW College of Hong Kong) Division of Applied Science and Technology Academic Year 2014/15 (Details) College Roles Member of CCCU Academic Board Divisional Representative of CCCU College Validation and Monitoring Committee Divisional Roles Programme Leader of Associate of Science in Information Systems Devvelopment (AScISD) Coordinator of of Personal and Career Development Centre (PACD) Student Advisor Mentor of Part-Time Lecturers Academic Year 2013/14 (Details) College Roles Member of CCCU Academic Board Divisional Representative of CCCU College Validation and Monitoring Committee Divisional Representative of CCCU Staff Consultative Committee Divisional Roles Programme Leader of Associate of Science in Information Systems Devvelopment (AScISD) Coordinator of AST Student Mentoring Scheme Coordinator of of Personal and Career Development Centre (PACD) Student Advisor Mentor of Part-Time Lecturers Academic Year 2012/13 (Details) College Roles Member of CCCU Academic Board Divisional Representative of CCCU Staff Consultative Committee Divisional Representative of CCCU Student Discipline Committee Divisional Roles Programme Leader of Associate of Science in Information Systems Devvelopment (AScISD) Coordinator of DCO Student Mentoring Scheme Coordinator of of Personal and Career Development Centre (PACD) Student Advisor Mentor of Part-Time Lecturers Division of Computer Studies Academic Year 2011/12 (Details) College Roles Member of College Validation and Monitoring Committee Divisional Representative of CCCU Staff Consultative Committee Divisional Representative of CCCU Student Discipline Committee Divisional Roles Coordinator of DCO Student Mentoring Scheme Coordinator of of Personal and Career Development Centre (PACD) Year Tutor of Associate of Science in Information Systems Development (For both year 1 & year 2 students) Year Tutor of Associate of Science in Network and Systems Administration (For both year 1& year 2 students) Deputy Year Tutor of Associate of Science in Applied Business Statistics (For year 1 students) (Semester A Only) Student Advisor Safety Committee Member of the Management Board Member of the University Critical Incident Management Team Mentor of Part-Time Lecturers Academic Year 2010/11 (Details) College Roles Divisional Representative of CCCU Staff Consultative Committee Divisional Representative of CCCU Student Discipline Committee Divisional Representative of CCCU Scholarships and Awards Sub-Committee Divisional Roles Coordinator of the Centre of Life Long Learning Scholarship Coordinator Tutor of Associate of Science in Environmental Studies (Both year 1 & year 2 students) Tutor of Assocoate of Science in Information Systems Development (Both year 1 & year 2 students) Tutor of Associate of Science in Information Technology (Year 2 students) Student Advisor Safety Committee Member of the Management Board Member of the University Critical Incident Management Team Work Group Member of Environmental Education and Community Action Projects Mentor of Part-Time Lecturers Academic Year 2009/10 (Details) Divisional Roles Tutor of Associate Degree of Science in Environmental Studies (ES) (Year 1 students) Tutor of Associate Degree of Science in Information Technology (IT) (Both year 1 & year 2 students) Student Academic Advisor Safety Committee of the Management Board Member of the University Critical Incident Management Team Project Member of Environmental Education and Community Action (Environment and Conservation Fund) Interviewer of Associate Degree Programmes Admission for Pre-AD students Mentor of Part-Time Lecturers Speaker for School Visits Divisional Representative on Programme Committee - DCO12000 Environment, Technology and Future Advisor of a Slogon Competition team Academic Year 2008/09 (Details) Divisional Roles Tutor of Associate Degree of Science in Information System Development (ISD) (Both Year 1 and Year 2 Students) Member of Associate Degree of Science in Network and Systems Administration (NSA) Studet Academic Advisor Safety Committee of the Management Board Planning Committee Member of the Programme on Environmental Studies X Division of Applied Science and Technology, Community College of City University Administrative Duties, Academic Year 2014/15 College Roles Member of CCCU Academic Board(1st Meeting: 24 September 2014) Divisional Representative of CCCU College Validation and Monitoring Committee(1st Meeting: 3 September 2014, 2nd Meeting: 12 November 2014) Member of CCCU Student Discipline Committee Divisional Roles Programme Leader of Associate of Science in Information System Development (AScISD) Student Advisor Mentor of Part-Time Lecturer Mr. Jackie Kwong (AST20105 Data Structures and Algorithms - Sem A 14/15) Mr. Murphy Lai (AST10106 Introduction to Programming - Sem A 14/15) Mr. Frank Lau (AST20207 Application for Portable Devices - Sem A 14/15) Seminars / Workshops / Ceremonies / Other Events Attended CCCU Congregation 2014 (20 November 2014) Administrative Services Workshop Instructor of "Producing Professional Drawing by Non-Professsionals" (8, 10 October 2014) Serving as Invited Speaker Speaker of Articulation / Career Talk for ISD & NSA Students organized by 29th Executive Committee of Computer Science Society, City University of Hong Kong Students' Union (13 November 2014) Submitting Proposals CCCU Quality Campus Life Fund Proposal entitled "Seoul, South Korea - Exploration of Technology and its Effect on Nation's Economy and Daily Life" for AScISD, AScNSA and AENG (19 September 2014) CCCU Quality Life Fund for Local Co-curricular Activity entitled "ISD BBQ Gathering 2014" (24 September 2014) Programme Restructuring (AScISD, AScNSA and AENG)(1st Meeting: 8 October 2014) Departmental Activities Organizer A Non-JUPAS Talk for HKUST CS/CPEG Admission 2015 (6 September 2014) The talk was conducted by Mr. Nicko Ying-wai SHEK, UG Coordinator's Assistant of CSE, HKUST A Non-JUPAS Talk for CUHK CS/CE Admission 2015 (11 September 2014) The talk was conducted by Dr. Kin Hong WONG, Associate Professor of CSE, CUHK A Non-JUPAS Talk for HKU CS Admission 2015 (16 September 2014) The talk was conducted by Dr. H. F. TING, Associate Professor of CS, HKU A Non-JUPAS Talk for HKU IM Admission 2015 (24 September 2014) The talk was conducted by Dr. Alvin Kwan, Teaching Consultant of Divison of Information & Technology Studies, HKU A Non-JUPAS Talk for CityU SCM Admission 2015 (21 October 2014) The talk was conducted by Dr. Oscar AU, Assistant Professor and Admission Tutor of SCM, CityU A Non-JUPAS Talk for CityU CS Admission 2015 (24 October 2014) The talk will be conducted by Dr. Kam Yiu LAM, Associate Professor of CS, CityU A Non-JUPAS Talk for HKBU CS/IS Admission 2015 (13 November 2014) The talk will be conducted by Dr. William Kwok Wai CHEUNG, Associate Head and Associate Professor of CS, HKBU and Dr. Fion LEE, Senior Lecturer of CS, HKBU ISD BBQ Gathering 2014 (To be confirmed) Hong Kong U-21 IoT Awards 2014 Supervision Easy Electronic Ticket - RFID Based Dynamic Electronic Ticket LO Leong Cheung (AScISD), CHAN See Yu (AScISD), CHENG Man Cheong (AScISD), CHU Wai Yin (AScISD), YIP Wai Ting Alex (AScISD), SO Ka Ho Brian (AScISD) Awarded a Certificate of Merit X Division of Applied Science and Technology, Community College of City University Administrative Duties, Academic Year 2013/14 College Roles Member of CCCU Academic Board(1st Meeting: 9 October 2013, 2nd Meeting: 12 February 2014, 3rd Meeting 30 April 2014) Divisional Representative of CCCU College Validation and Monitoring Committee(1st Meeting: 4 September 2013, 2nd Meeting: 13 November 2013, 3rd Meeting: 15 January 2014, 4th Meeting: 26 February 2014) Divisional Representative of CCCU Staff Consultative Committee(1st Meeting: 1 November 2013, 2nd Meeting: 20 June 2014) Member of CCCU Student Discipline Committee Divisional Roles Programme Leader of Associate of Science in Information System Development (AScISD) Coordinator of AST Student Mentoring Scheme Coordinator of Personal and Career Development Centre (PACD) Student Advisor Mentor of Part-Time Lecturer Mr. Garret Lai (AST20404 Information Systems in Business - Sem B 13/14) Mr. Jackie Kwong (AST20105 Data Structures and Algorithms - Sem A 13/14, AST21105 Object-Oriented Programming and Design - Sem B 13/14) Mr. Sunny Ng (AST10106 Introduction to Programming, AST20207 Application for Portable Devices - Sem A 13/14) Seminars / Workshops / Ceremonies / Other Events Attended Book Launch-cum-Seminar organized by the Federation for Self-financing Tertiary Education (25 September 2013) Seminar on AD market, Admission Findings and Suggestions for Enhancement conducted by Dr. Charlie Choi (4 October 2013) Information Day 2013 (19 October 2013) AScNSA BBQ Gathering 2013 (21 October 2013) CCCU Congregation 2013 (22 November 2013) Computing Services Centre, CityU Forum - Google Glass: The Next Revolution (13 February 2014) Seminar on Articulation Opportunities to CityU BEng (Hons) in Electronic Engineering (14 February 2014) Seminar for Self-Financed Sub-degree Programmes Units (SSPUs) - The Teaching of Sub-Degrees offered by Joint Quality Review Committee (JQRC) (20 March 2014) Briefing Session on 2014 CCCU Marketing Plan and Admission Exercise conducted by Dr. Charlie Choi (11 April 2014) Digital Entertainment Leadership Forum 2014 (An Official Event of IT Festival 2014) organized by Hong Kong Cyberport (16 April 2014) Theme: Pioneering Technology Changes in Digital Entertainment Administrative Services Workshop Instructor of "Producing Professional Drawing by Non-Professionals" (21, 25 October 2013, 7 February 2014) Serving as Invited Guest (27 June 2014) http://www.lhymss.edu.hk/13-14/20140627.asp Serving as Invited Speaker Speaker of an Articulation Talk for ISD, NSA and CIMP Students organized by 28th Executive Committee of Computer Science Society, City University of Hong Kong Students' Union (9 October 2013) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2013/20131009_non-jupas-talk-isd-nsa-eng.pdf Speaker of the 29th Computer Science Society Inauguration Ceremony (13 February 2014) Speaker of a Career Talk for ISD & NSA Students organized by 29th Executive Committee of Computer Science Society, City University of Hong Kong Students' Union (15 April 2014) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2014/20140415_Career-Talk.pdf Submitting Proposals CCCU Quality Campus Life Fund Proposal entitled "Exploration of Technology Advances in Taiwan" for AScISD & AENG Students (19 September 2013) CCCU Quality Campus Life Fund Proposal entitled "IT & Financial Development @ Shanghai" for AScABS & AScISD Students with Ms. Kingship LO (19 September 2013) CCCU Quality Life Fund for Local Co-curricular Activity entitled "Alumni Sharing on Non-JUPAS Application and Study for Year 2013" (14 September 2013) CCCU Quality Life Fund for Local Co-curricular Activity entitled "ISD BBQ Gathering 2013" (26 September 2013) CCCU Quality Life Fund for Local Co-curricular Activitiy entitled "Understanding 3D Game Development using Maya and Unity by Attending Unity Workshop" (2 March 2014) CCCU Quality Life Fund for Local Co-curricular Activity entitled "Understanding Latest Internet Technologies by Attending World Internet Developer Summit" (21 March 2014) Change of Curriculum for Associate of Science in Information Systems Development for 2014/15 Cohort and Thereafter (21 March 2014) CCCU Quality Life Fund for Local Co-curricular Activity entitled "Front-End Programming with JavaScript and jQuery" (6 May 2014) CCCU Quality Life Fund for Local Co-curricular Activity entitled "Training Workshop on Visual Basic for Application" (6 May 2014) Restructuring of Courses on Computer Programming and Mathematics (22 January 2014) Serving as Interviewer CCCU Associate Degree Admission Interview (7 February 2014, 28 February 2014, 10 April 2014, 25 April 2014, 7 May 2014, 9 May 2014, 22 May 2014, 12-13 June 2014, 17 June 2014, 19-20 June 2014, 23 June 2014, 3 July 2014, 10-11 July 2014, 14-17 July 2014, 8-9 August 2014) Serving as Panel Member Revalidation for Associate of Business Administration (Global Logistics and Supply Chain Management) (6 March 2014) Revalidation for Associate of Business Administration (International Business Management) (6 March 2014) Revalidation for Associate of Science in Environmental Studies (13 March 2014) Serving as Member of Revalidation Preparation Revalidation for Associate of Environmental Studies (5 March 2014) Proposing New Courses for AD Programmes AST10210 Computer Organization AST20205 Java Programming Revise the syllabus of AD Courses AST10106 Introduction to Programming AST21111 Discrete Mathematics Final Year Project Coordination and Assessment ISD Supervisor Meeting (7 March 2014) ISD Project Presentation (30 April 2014) Academic Meeting for Articulation Meeting with Dr. William Cheung, Associate Head of Computer Science, Hong Kong Baptist University (9 October 2013) Meeting with Representative from Deakin University, Australia (27 February 2014) Meeting with External Professional Advisor of ISD and NSA (25 April 2014) Departmental Activities Organizer A Non-JUPAS Talk for HKUST CS/CPEG Admission 2014 (6 September 2013) The talk was conducted by Mr. Nicko Ying-wai SHEK, UG Coordinator's Assistant of CSE, HKUST A Non-JUPAS Talk for HKBU CS Admission 2014 (27 September 2013) The talk was conducted by Dr. William Kwok Wai CHEUNG, Associate Head and Associate Professor of CS, HKBU A Non-JUPAS Talk for HKU CS Admission 2014 (4 October 2013) The talk was conducted by Dr. H. F. TING, Associate Professor of CS, HKU A Non-JUPAS Talk for CUHK CS/CE Admission 2014 (10 October 2013) The talk was conducted by Dr.. Man Ho WONG, Associate Professor of CSE, CUHK A Non-JUPAS Talk for HKU IM Admission 2014 (18 October 2013) The talk was conducted by Dr. Alvin Kwan, Teaching Consultant of Division of Information & Technology Studies, HKU http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2013/20131111_non-JUPAS-seminar.pdf ISD BBQ Gathering 2013 (17 October 2013) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2013/20131017_ISD-BBQ-Gathering.pdf An Alumni Sharing Session on Non-JUPAS Application and Study for Year 2013 (25 October 2013) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2013/20131025_alumni-sharing.pdf A Non-JUPAS Talk for CityU SCM Admission 2014 (23 December 2013) The talk was conducted by Dr. Oscar Au and Mr. Warren Leung, Assistant Professor and Admission Tutor of SCM, CityU CSC Forum - Google Glass: The Next Revolution (13 February 2014) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2014/20140213_Google-Glass-Forum.pdf Elective Course Briefing Session for Students in Information Systems Development (21 February 2014) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2014/20140221_Elective-Course-Briefing.pdf Understanding 3D Game Development using Maya and Unity (21-23 March 2014) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2014/20140321_Unity-Workshop.pdf MoDev Hong Kong Forum & Disruptathon 2014 (12 April 2014) The event is organized by Hong Kong Computer Society (HKCS), Hong Kong Cyberport Management Company Limited (Cyberport), and MoDevNetwork, LLC. (MoDev) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2014/20140412_MoDev-Forum.pdf Taiwan Study Tour (28-31 May 2014) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2014/20140528_Taiwan-Study-Tour.pdf Final Year Project Sharing (23 June 2014) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2014/20140623_FYP-Briefing.pdf Front-End Programming with JavaScript and jQuery (24-25, 27 June 2014, 7-9 July 2014) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2014/20140624_JavaScript-Workshop.pdf Training Workshop on Visual Basic for Application (2-4 July 2014, 14-16 July 2014) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2014/20140702_VBA-Workshop.pdf Workshop Certificate Presentation Ceremony (4 August 2014) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2014/20140804_Summer_IT_Workshops.pdf FYP Supervision and Consultation ISD04 - Novel Interaction Framework for Google Glass (Live Project offered by MTel Limited)(LEUNG Pui Kuen, MOK Ho Ting, LO Chun Sing, FAN Wai Ho, LI Kin Fai) ISD08 - Digital Notice Board System(LEE Man Ho, AU Ho Yen, MAK Wai Sum, HO wing Yin Monique) ISD-10 Mobile Shopping System(TSUI Tsz Tung, SZE Shing) Hong Kong U-21 IoT Awards 2014 Supervision Food Safety Management System using RFID Johnny Chung Yau CHAN (AScNSA) and Joseph Shing Lung LUI (AENG) Awarded the Certificate of Merit X Division of Applied Science and Technology, Community College of City University Administrative Duties, Academic Year 2012/13 College Roles Member of CCCU Academic Board(3 October 2012, 6 February 2013, 24 April 2013) Divisional Representative of CCCU Staff Consultative Committee(26 October 2012, 1 February 2013) Divisional Representative of CCCU Student Discipline Committee(To be arranged) In attendance of CCCU Examination Board Meeting(30 January 2013, 25 June 2013) Divisional Roles Programme Leader of Associate of Science in Information System Development (AScISD) Coordinator of AST Student Mentoring Scheme Coordinator of Personal and Career Development Centre (PACD) Student Advisor Mentor of Part-Time Lecturer Mr. Jackie Kwong (DCO20105 Data Structures and Algorithms - Sem A 12/13, DCO20501 Computer Graphics - Sem A 12/13, DCO21105 Object-Oriented Programming and Design - Sem B 12/13) Programme Planning Team Members (Associate of Science in Security and Criminology, Associate of Science in Food Science and Health) Seminars / Workshops / Ceremonies / Other Events Attended A Meeting to Discuss about Students' Profiles (14 September 2012) AScNSA BBQ Gathering (27 September 2012) A Seminar on Articulation to CityU (19 October 2012) CCCU Principal's List Presentation Ceremony and Reception (2 November 2012) A Distinguished Seminar on Internet of Things (IoT) (12 November 2012) CCCU Congregation 2012 (22 November 2012) Joint Class Representatives Gathering of CCCU (23 November 2012) A Seminar for Courses and Programmes (7 December 2012) CCCU College Briefing (18 January 2013) A Training Workshop namely "Functional Training on DegreeWorks" offered by ARRO, CityU (25 January 2013) A Seminar namely "Young Talents' Projects Sharing Seminar" organized by GS1 (8 February 2013) A Seminar on Articulation Opportunities to CityU BEng (Hons) in Electronic Engineering (19 February 2013) A Staff Workshop - Coping with Disruptive Behaviour in the Classroom (22 February 2013) The Asia Smartphone Apps Contest Winners Experience Sharing Session (8 March 2013) A Training Workshop namely "Training on the use of CPMS" offered by Dr. Charlie Choi (22 March 2013) CCCU Class Representative Gathering 2013 (26 April 2013) The Final Year Project Competition 2013 (2 May 2013) A Briefing on 2013 Marketing Plan and Admission Exercise (3 May 2013) A Seminar for GE Administrators and Workshop for Science GE Teachers organized by the Federation for Self-financing Tertiary Education (7 June 2013) Keynote Speaker: Dr. Hedley Freake Seminar ~ Program Articulation between 2-Year and 4-Year Institutions in Hong Kong: What Can Be Learned from the US Experience? Workshop ~ Workshop for Science GE Teachers: Engaging Non-scientists in Science General Education Classes A World Internet Developer Summit 2013 at Cyberport and Hong Kong Science Park (27-28 June 2013) A Media Session offered by CCCU on Application Status on AD Programmes via e-Apps (4 July 2013) A Seminar titled "Games for Change After Tea Gathering" jointly organized by Hong Kong Digital Game-based Learnings Association and Cyberport (2 August 2013) Administrative Services Submitting Proposals CCCU Quality Campus Life Fund for Local Co-curricular Activity entitled Cultural Exchange and Experience Sharing with Students from Osaka Institute of Technoloyg (OIT) (2-11 September 2012) CCCU Quality Campus Life Fund Proposal entitled "Exploring the keys of IT development in Singapore" for AScISD, AScNSA & AENG Students (21 September 2012) CCCU Quality Campus Life Fund Proposal entitled "IT & Financial Development @ Shanghai" for AScABS, AScISD, AScNSA & AENG Students with Ms. Kingship LO (21 September 2012) CCCU Quality Campus Life Fund for Local Co-curricular Activity entitled BBQ Gathering for ISD Students and Teachers (23 January 2013) CCCU Quality Campus Life Fund for Local Co-curricular Activity entitled Technical Visits to Ngong Ping 360 for ABS, ENG, ISD, and NSA Students (25 January 2013) CCCU Quality Campus Life Fund for Local Co-curricular Activity entitled Exploring Latest Internet Technologies by Attending World Internet Developer Summit (5 June 2013) CCCU Quality Campus Life Fund for Local Co-curricular Activity entitled Training Workshop on Visual Basic for Application (7 June 2013) Conducting Academic Sessions A FYP Briefing for Students under Supervision (11 October 2012) Student Mentoring Scheme Meetings (12 October 2012) A PACD Workshop on PDS (16 October 2012) Briefing Sessions for Singapore Study Tour 2013 (13 May 2013, 21 May 2013) Pre-trip Presentation for Singapore Study Tour 2013 (27 May 2013) A Final Year Project Sharing Session (6 June 2013) Student Mentoring Scheme 2013-14 Briefing Sessions (27 June 2013, 10 July 2013) Serving as Invited Speaker / Interviewer / Marker Speaker of an Articulation Talk for ISD, NSA and CIMP Students organized by 27th Executive Committee of Computer Science Society, City University of Hong Kong Students' Union (21 September 2012) Speaker of an Interview Talk of the 28th Computer Science Society of City University of Hong Kong Students' Union (25 February 2013) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2013/20130225_csss-interview-talk.pdf Interviewer for a number of Mock Interview Sessions offered by the 28thComputer Science Society of City University of Hong Kong Students' Union (2 Sessions on 27 February 2013, 2 Sessions on 1 March 2013) Second Marker of Final Year Project Groups (2 May 2013) Interviewer for Associate Degree (6 May, 10 May, 14 May, 5 June, 25 June, 15-17 July, 22 July, 30-31 July 2013) Phone Interviewer for Associate Degree (10-11 July 2013) Others Collect Students' Feedback about General Education Courses (8 May 2013) Design Final Year Project Booklet for Academic Year 2012-13 (13 May 2013) AScISD Coordinator of Ambassador Nomination for Hong Kong Internet of Things Centre (July 2013) AScISD Coordinator of Student Ambassador / Student Helpers in Asia Pacific Information and Communications Technology Awards (APICTA) (July 2013) Divisional Representative of Parents' Seminar (3 August 2013) Departmental Activities Organizer Activities for Students from Osaka Institute of Technology and ISD & END students (2-11 September 2012) Exchange Students' Orientation (2 September 2012) Sit-In Lessons offered by Division of Applied Science and Technology (3-12 September 2012) Touring around Victoria Harbour (5 September 2012) BBQ Gathering with Exchange Students to Share their Experience in a Causal Environment (8 September 2012) Must-see Wonders @ Lantau Island (9 September 2012) Visiting IT Infrastructures (Cyberport and HK Science and Technology Park) (10 - 12 September 2012) Round-up Sharing Session (11 September 2012) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2012/20120902_OIT-exchange.pdf A Non-JUPAS Talk for HKUST CS/CPEG Admission 2013 (5 September 2012) The talk was conducted by Prof. Andrew HORNER, Professor of CSE, HKUST http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2012/20120905_Articulate_to_UGC_fund_Uni.pdf A Non-JUPAS Talk for HKU CS Admission 2013 (13 September 2012) The talk was conducted by Dr. H. F. TING, Associate Professor of CS, HKU http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2012/20120905_Articulate_to_UGC_fund_Uni.pdf A Non-JUPAS Talk for CUHK CS/CPEG Admission 2013 (19 September 2012) The talk was conducted by Prof. Yufei YAO, Professor of CSE, CUHK http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2012/20120905_Articulate_to_UGC_fund_Uni.pdf A Non-JUPAS Talk for HKBU CS/IS Admission 2013 (3 October 2012) The talk was conducted by Dr. William Kwok Wai CHEUNG, Associate Head and Associate Professor of CS, HKBU http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2012/20120905_Articulate_to_UGC_fund_Uni.pdf An Alumni Sharing Session on Non-JUPAS Admission and Study (3 October 2012) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2012/20121003_alumni-non-JUPAS-sharing.pdf A Non-JUPAS Talk for CityU CS Admission 2013 (21 November 2012) (Co-organized by Mr. Nelson Tsang) The talk was conducted by Dr. Kam-Yiu LAM, Associate Professor of CS, CityU http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2012/20120905_Articulate_to_UGC_fund_Uni.pdf A Non-JUPAS Talk for 2013 Admission to HKU BSc(Hons) in Information Management (6 December 2013) The talk was conducted by Dr. Alvin Kwan, Teaching Consultant of Division of Information & Technology Studies, HKU http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2012/20120905_Articulate_to_UGC_fund_Uni.pdf A BBQ Gathering at CityU BBQ Area for AScISD Students (24 January 2013) [ Supported by CCCU Local Quality Life Fund ] http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2013/20130124_ISD_BBQ.pdf A Briefing Session for Selection of Elective Courses for AScISD Students (28 January 2013) A seminar namely "Young Talents' Projects Sharing Seminar" organized by GS1 (8 February 2013) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2013/20130208-U21_RFID_Sharing.pdf A Technical Visit to Ngong Ping 360 for ABS, ENG, ISD and NSA (2 March 2013, 9 March 2013) [ Supported by CCCU Local Quality Life Fund ] http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2013/20130302_NP360.pdf The Asia Smartphone Apps Contest Winners Experience Sharing Session organized by Hong Kong Wireless Technology Industry Association (8 March 2013) http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2013/20130308_Asia_Apps_Sharing.pdf Singapore Study Tour namely "Exploring the Keys of IT Development in Singapore" (29 - 31 May 2013) [ Supported by College Quality Campus Life Fund ] http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2013/20130529_SingaporeStudyTour.pdf A Summit namely "Exploring Latest Internet Technologies by Attending World Internet Developer Summit 2013" (5 June 2013) [ Supported by College Quality Campus Life Fund ] http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2013/20130628_world-internet-summit.pdf Training Workshop on Visual Basic for Application (24-26 July 2013) [ Supported by College Quality Campus Life Fund ] http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2013/20130724_VBA-workshop.pdf FYP Supervision and Consultation ISD01 - Event Planner Mobile Application (Live Project offered by MTel Limited) (SIU Kai Chung, NGAN Ka Hei, LI In, CHAR Lik Hang & YAU Ka Kin) The Certificate of Merit Award Final Year Project Competition 2013 Report ISD08 - iGreeting - Greeting Card with Augmented Reality (CHAN Kin, LAM Wai Kit, LAM Cheuk Man, HAR Chiu Kwong Samson & CHEUNG Kwai Keung) Hong Kong U-21 RFID Awards 2013 Supervision http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2012/20121109_U-21-RFID-awards-presentation.pdf Examination Management System using RFID Johnny Chung Yau CHAN (AScNSA) Awarded the Certificate of Merit Electronic Data Card using RFID Lik Hang CHAR (AScISD) Awarded the Certificate of Merit X Division of Computer Studies, Community College of City University Administrative Duties, Academic Year 2011/12 College Roles Member of College Validation and Monitoring Commitee(1st Meeting: 26 October 2011, 2nd Meeting: 2 November 2011) Divisional Representative of CCCU Staff Consultative Committee(1st Meeting: 14 October 2011, 2nd Meeting: 23 March 2012) Divisional Representative of CCCU Student Discipline Committee(1st Meeting: 25 May 2012 [ Divisional Academic Conduct Committee ]) Divisional Roles Coordinator of Personal and Career Development Centre Coordinator of DCO Student Mentoring Scheme Year Tutor of the Associate of Science in Information Systems Development (AScISD 1 & 2) Year Tutor of the Associate of Science in Network and Systems Administration (AScNSA 1 & 2) Deputy Year Tutor of the Associate of Science in Applied Business Statistics (AScABS Year 1) (Semester A Only) Student Advisor Safety Committee Member of the Management Board Member of the University Critical Incident Management Team Mentor of Part-Time Lecturer Mr. Garret Lai (DCO10103 Programming in Java - Sem A 11/12) Ms. Amy Kwan (DCO10111 Basic Calculus and Linear Algebra - Sem A 11/12) Mr. Jackie Kwong (DCO20105 Data Structures and Algorithms - Sem A 11/12, DCO20503 3D Modeling and Computer Animation - Sem B 11/12) Mr. Keith Tsang (DCO10105 Object-Oriented Programming and Design - Sem B 11/12) Seminars / Workshops / Ceremonies / Other Events Attended Attended a talk namely "Dare to Dream" given by Dr. Rita Fan Hsu Lai-tai, Member of the Standing Committee of The Eleventh National People's Congress of the People's Republic of China (9 September 2011) Joined QEGS Project on "Development of Joint Teacher Training and Staff Development Programmes" conducted by the Federation for Continuing Education in Tertiary Institutions (FCE) Induction Programme (6 hours, 18, 25 October 2011 & 1 November 2011) Intensive Teacher Training Programme (Module 1) (6 hours, 29 November, 7 December, 13 December 2011) Attended an In-house Staff Development Course namely "Mobile Apps Sharing" conducted by the Office of the CIO, City University of Hong Kong (7 November 2011) Attended a Training Workshop namely "Blackboard Lean - How to Access CCCU Students" offered by CIO, CityU (1 December 2011) Attended an Undergraduate Admissions Talk for Sub-degree Students in Hong Kong offered by University of Hong Kong (5 December 2011) Attended a talk on Tertiary Eduation conducted by Prof. Lee Ngok, organized by Division of Social Studies, CCCU (16 December 2011) Attended a Further Study Talk about BSc in Information Technology Management (BSIM) HKU given by Dr. Alvin Kwan (21 December 2011) Attended the Principal's List Presentation Ceremony, CCCU (21 December 2011) Attended a talk about Application of HKIE Membership given by Dr. C. L. Chan, the Fellow Member of HKIE (30 December 2011) Attended a Further Study and Alumni Sharing Session for Students Studying Associate of Science in Applied Business Statistics (AScABS) (20 January 2012) Attended a Media Session offered by CCCU on 2012 Admission Forecasting (1 February 2012) Attended a General Education Workshop organized by Division of Commerce (3 February 2012) Attended the World Internet Developers' Summit [ Conference and Workshop ] (6-7 March 2012) Attended the Hong Kong's 1st Symposium on China Cloud Computing Standardization (30 March 2012) Attend a Seminar on General Education and Student Success in the Sub-degree Sector (31 March 2012) Attended a FCE ( Federation of Continuing Education) Seminar on Attributes of Prospective Students under Education Reform (24 May 2012) Attended an International Conference on General Education @ City University of Hong Kong (12-14 June 2012) Attended a Seminar about "" conducted by IT & Telecom Group, CityU Business and Industrial Club (CUBIC) Knowledge Transfer Office (6 July 2012) Speaker: Dr. Samson Tam, Patron of CityU Business and Industrial Club, Legislative Councilor (IT) and Chairman of TechMatrix Research Centre Attended a Seminar titled "Apps" conducted by Hong Kong Productivity Council and Hong Kong Wireless Technology Industry Association (WTIA) (30 July 2012) Attended a Seminar on General Education Teaching and Learning organised by GE Committee, Community College of City University (28 August 2012) Administrative Services Invited Speaker for an Articulation Talk for ISD, NSA and CIMP Students organized by 26th Computer Science Society, City University of Hong Kong Students' Union (3 October 2011) Instructor of Personality Dimensions Seminar on Interview Skills for CM, DCO and DSS students (8 February 2012) Instructor of Personality Dimensions Assessment and Personal Planning (15 February 2012) Submitted a Proposal (A Study Tour to Shenzhen and Guangzhou - Understanding the Development of Information Technology in Pearl River Delta Region) for applying CCCU College Quality Campus Life Fund (CQCLF) (12 March 2012) Admission Interviewer (11 May 2012, 14 May 2012, 4-7 June 2012, 29 June - 5 July 2012, 20 - 24 July 2012) Interviewed by MingPao about Final Year Projects Work - (1) Super Meal and (2) Kinect Presentation System (KPS) (8 June 2012) Invited Speaker for a Seminar about IT Development in HK offered to Harbin Engineering University (17 July 2012) Report Writing for Alumni & Achievements KO Chung Ming 2010 Graduate From AD to BEng, HKUST http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2012/20120411_KoChungMing.pdf CHENG Wing Shan 2010 Graduate From AScIT to BScCS CityU http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2012/20120411_ChengWingShan.pdf Submitted Applications for Placement of Courses under Continuing Education Fund (CEF) Scheme (12 June 2012) Conducted a Final Year Project Experience Sharing Session for ISD Students (4 July 2012) Submitted a Proposal (Cultural Exchange and Experience Sharing with Students from Osaka Institute of Technology) (23 August 2012) Departmental Activities Organizer Alumni Experience Sharing to ISD, NSA & ENG Students (26 September 2011) Alumni admitted to Computer Science (CS) or Computer Engineering (CPEG) were invited to share their experience of applying undergraduate programmes via non-JUPAS. They also provided some useful tips for our students to sail through the upcoming degree journey. http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2012/20120412_Alumni_Sharing_ISD_NSA_ENG.pdf Hong Kong U-21 RFID Awards Innovative Young Talents' Projects & Industry Success Story Sharing Seminar organized by GS1 HK and HK Polytechnic University (10 February 2012) Students attended a seminar to obtain the latest news of RFID technology and had the opportunity to share with the presenters on their success stories. http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_News/documents/2012/20120210_RFID_Sharing_Seminar.pdf Elective Course Briefing for Year 1 ISD and NSA Students (24 February 2012) Further Study Seminar of Bachelor of Science Education (Honours) offered by Hong Kong Institute of Education (29 February 2012) WuYi University Study Tour (16-18 May 2012, AScES) Visited WuYi University to provide students with practical hand-on experience in using basic laboratory experiments to obtain chemical and bacteriological data on air and water samples; and analyzing chemical and bacteriological data from air and water samples to determine its environmental significance.[ Equivalent to DCO10213 Environmental Studies Laboratory ] http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2012/20120514_Laboratory_Trip_WuYi_University.pdf Student Mentoring Scheme 2012-13 Briefing Session (28 June 2012) Chief Mentors Meeting for SMS 2012-13 (10 August 2012, 15 August 2012) Mentors Meeting for SMS 2012-13 (17 August 2012) FYP Supervision and Consultation ISD04: Quick Response Mobile Shopping System (QR-MSS)(CHONG Ho Ming, WONG Ka Fai, LAU Sui Ting, TSANG Wing Shan, YIU Yuk Lun) ISD05: Kinect Presentation System (KPS)(PUN Yat Yu Dickson, YEUNG Pak Cheong Teddy, HO Kwok Hung Thomas, LAI Chung Yin Kelvin) The Certificate of Merit Award Newspaper report (MingPao 29 June 2012) Final Year Project Competition 2012 Report Hong Kong U-21 RFID Awards 2012 Supervision http://www.ast.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2012/20121109_U-21-RFID-awards-presentation.pdf Johnny Chung Yau CHAN (AScNSA) - Examination Management System using RFID Lik Hang CHAR (AScISD) - Electronic Data Card using RFID X Division of Computer Studies, Community College of City University Administrative Duties, Academic Year 2010/11 College Roles Divisional Representative of CCCU Staff Consultative Committee (1st Meeting: 26 November 2010, 2nd Meeting: 8 April 2011) Divisional Representative of CCCU Student Discipline Committee (1st Meeting: 5 July 2011) Divisional Representative of CCCU Scholarships and Awards Sub-Committee (1st Meeting: 18 March 2011, 2nd Meeting: 25 March 2011, 3rd Meeting: 18 April 2011) Divisional Roles Coordinator of the Centre of Life Long Learning Scholarship Coordinator Year Tutor of the Associate of Science in Environmental Studies Programme (AScES Year 1 & 2) Year Tutor of the Assocoate of Science in Information Systems Development Programme (AScISD 1 & 2) Year Tutor of the Associate of Science in Information Technology Programme (AScIT Year 2) Student Advisor Safety Committee Member of the Management Board Member of the University Critical Incident Management Team Work Group Member of Environmental Education and Community Action Projects Mentor of Part-Time Lecturers Mr. Jackie Kwong (DCO20105 Data Structures and Algorithms - Sem A 10/11, DCO20503 3D Modeling and Computer Animations - Sem B 10/11) Ms Judy Kiu (DCO10211 Biology - Sem B 10/11) Seminars / Workshops / Ceremonies / Other Events Attended Attended the Forum on Higher Education Review conducted by the Education Bureau (1 March 2011) Attended a Media Session to report CCCU's 2005 to 2007 graduates' present employment and study figures (19 May 2011) Attended a Workshop on General Education titled "Design and Delivery GE Courses (use Science and Technology Discipline as example) conducted by Prof. David Jaffee, a Fulbright Scholar at CityU (24 June 2011) Attended an Education Workshop titled "Cloudy Days Ahead for Education" conducted by Symantec.Cloud (24 June 2011) Attended a Seminar titled "Share Cloud - Smart, Secure, Ready for Business" conducted by HK Productivity Council and Sponsored by IBM (22 July 2011) Attended a Seminar titled "In Search of Teaching Excellence (Teaching 2 Learn, Learning 2 Teach)" co-organized by Division of Commerce and Division of Computer Studies, CCCU (27 July 2011) Administrative Services PACD Seminar for CCCU Students (1,8 September 2010, 27 October 2010) PACD, PD Assessment for CCCU Stuents (CM ABAA Year 2) at Lei Yue Mun Park and Holiday Village (25 September 2010, Saturday) Personality Dimensions Assessment and Workshop for DCO FYP Students (ISD, IT) (7, 14 September 2010) An article for DCO graduate about his overseas study http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Grad_Alumni/documents/2010/20101025_IT_WANGHan.pdf Submitted a course proposal for CLLL (Course Name: Android Apps Development) Invited Speaker for the Teachers' Forum (Comprehensive Guidance and Support Services for AD Students) offered by Personal and Career Development Centre (PACD), CCCU (3 December 2010) Invited Speaker for the Associate of Engineering Careers Talk organized by the 25th Electronic Engineering Society, City University of Hong Kong Students' Union (22 February 2011)[ Photo ] CCCU Programme Revalidation for ENG, ISD and NSA Programme (24 May 2011) Invited Speaker for Session 3 on Sharing Good Practice, Ideas, Innovations, Tips in Teaching and Learning at the Seminar titled "In Search of Teaching Excellence (Teaching 2 Learn, Learning 2 Teach)" co-organized by Division of Commerce and Division of Computer Studies, CCCU (27 July 2011) A document prepared for the sharing - Enhancing Teaching and Learning by Understanding our Students Better Drafted new syllabus for the following courses: DCO10106 Introduction to Programming DCO20107 Application for Portable Devices DCO21111 Discrete Mathematics Revised syllabus of the following courses: DCO10112 Mathematical Analysis (Equivalent to DCO10112) DCO10210 Chemistry DCO10211 Biology DCO11103 Problem Solving with Programming Skills DCO20105 Data Structures and Algorithms DCO20210 Ecology- DCO20501 Computer Graphics DCO20503 3D Modeling and Computer Animation DCO21105 Object-Oriented Programming and Design (Equivalent to DCO10105) DCO21213 Environmental Studies Laboratory Departmental Activities Organizer A visit to Ma Shi Chau Special Area (15 September 2010) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2010/20100908_MaShiChau.pdf Visited Ma Shi Chau to provide students a better understanding about geology A visit to Shing Mun - Terrestrial Habitats (6 October 2010) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2010/20101006_ShingMunCountryPark.pdf Visited Shing Mun to provide students a better understanding about terrestrial habitats A visit to Tai Po Kau - Terrestrial Habitats (20 October 2010) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2010/20101020_TaiPoKau.pdf Visited Tai Po Kau to provide students a better understanding about terrestrial habitats A trip to Guangzhou University for ES Students (3-5 and 5-7 January 2011) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2011/20110103_GuangzhouUni.pdf Visited Guangzhou University to enrich students' exposures in environmental issues in China. WuYi University Study Tour (25-27 May 2011, AScES) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2011/20110516_LabWYU.pdf Visited WuYi University to provide students with practical hand-on experience in using basic laboratory experimentas to obtain chemical and bacteriological data on air and water samples; and analyzing chemical and bacteriological data from air and water samples to determine its environmental significance.[ Equivalent to DCO10213 Environmental Studies Laboratory ] Summer Workshops 2011 (20, 27-29 June 2011, AENG, AScES, AScISD, AScNSA and Graduates of AOAL) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2011/20110629_SummerWorkshops.pdf Organized a number of workshops to nurture DCO students and alumni with the ability to handle latest IT technologies. FYP Supervision and Consultation http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2011/20110406_FYP.pdf IT01: Web-based Project Management System (Live project offered by Fusion System Limited) (Pun Ho Ting, Chan Sen, Cheng Lai Hei, Chow Pak Kin, Zhou Xu) Project Description Photo with Sponsor (From Left to Right: Desmond TSOI, CHOW Pak Kin (IT01), ZHOU Xu (IT01), CHAN Sen (IT01), PUN Ho Ting (IT01), CHENG Lai Hei (IT01), Laurence CHAN (Fusion System Limited), Kenny MAK (Fusion System Limited), CHU Ting Fung (ISD04), CHEUNG Ka lun (ISD04) ISD02: Apps Tailor (Jor Yu Hin, Tsang Tim Lung, Chan Sui Pang, Cheung Chun Sum, Ng Ting Kong) Project Description The Certificate of Merit Award Short video for the work: http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_ShowCases/documents/2011/2011_ISD02_Apps_Tailor/index.html X Division of Computer Studies, Community College of City University Administrative Duties, Academic Year 2009/10 Divisional Roles Tutor of the Associate Degree of Science in Environmental Studies (ES) Programme for year 1 students Tutor of the Associate Degree of Science in Information Technology (IT) Programme for both year 1 & year 2 students Student Academic Advisor Safety Committee of the Management Board Member of the University Critical Incident Management Team Project Member of Environmental Education and Community Action (Environment and Conservation Fund) Interviewer of Associate Degree Programmes Admission for Pre-AD students (February 2010) Mentor of Part-Time Lecturers Dr. Angus Siu (DCO10103 Programming in Java - Sem A 09/10) Mr. Sunny Ho (DCO10105 Object-Oriented Programming and Design & DCO20405 Advanced Database Administration and Networking - Sem B 09/10) Ms Judy Kiu (DCO10211 Biology - Sem B 09/10) Mr. Ken Lee (DCO10105 Object-Oriented Programming and Design - Sem B 09/10) Speaker for School Visits Divisional Representative on Programme Committee - DCO12000 Environment, Technology and Future Advisor of a Slogon Competition team, responsibled for promoting messages of environmental protection Seminars / Workshops Attended Personal and Career Development Centre (PACD) Trainer of Seminars, Personality Dimensions (PD) assessment and Facilitator of PD workshops Attended Personality Dimensions Facilitator Training Course (5, 6 & 8 January 2010) Attended Computer Aided Lecturing System (CALS) Workshop, presented by Dr. Joseph Fong, Associate Professor, Department of Computer Science, CityU (26 February 2010) Administrative Services Contact person for working as a supporting organisation of the 2nd session of CyberFriends Seminar "" for Hong Kong Cyberport Management Company Limited (6 March 2010) DCO Contact person of Cyberport's signature event - Digital Entertainment Leadership Forum 2010 (Seminar + Workshop) (23 March 2010 and 25 March 2010) Contact person for working as a supporting organisation of the 3rd session of CyberFriends Seminar "" for Hong Kong Cyberport Management Company Limited (14 August 2010) Help promoting message of environmental protection to Youth for Youth Employment Service (YES), Hong Kong Labor Department Revised course syllabi of the following courses: DCO10210 Chemistry DCO10211 Biology DCO20210 Ecology DCO20501 Computer Graphics DCO20503 3D Modeling and Computer Animation Submitted two proposals (Shanghai and Singapore) for applying CCCU College Quality Campus Life Fund (CQCLF) Visited WuYi University for Study Tour Preparation - (12 March 2010) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Staff_Activities/documents/2010/20100312_WuYiUni.pdf Invited speaker of the media gathering on promoting CCCU caring culture (25 March 2010) CCCU, SingTao Daily Newspaper (View) Video (View) PACD - Personality Dimensions Workshop for student mentors from 4 divisions of CCCU (17 August 2010) Departmental Activities Organizer A trip to Guangzhou University for ES Students (22-24, 28-30 December 2009 & 4-6 January 2010) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2009/20091222_GuangZhouU.swf http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2010/20100111_GZU_Report.pdf Visited Guangzhou University to enrich students' exposures in environmental issues in China. Workshop on Personality Dimension Assessments and Career Planning for DCO students (co-organized by DCO and Personal and Career Development (PACD) Centre (21 December 2009) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2009/20091221_Workshop.swf To help students understand their personality styles better. A technical visit to Lamma Winds (21 December 2009, AScES, AScAOAL, AEng, AScISD, AScNSA) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2009/20091221_LammaWind.pdf Visited Lamma Winds to provide students a better understanding about the use of renewable energy. A visit to Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited - HKEx (9 October 2009, AScABS, AScISD, AEng, AScNSA) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2009/20091009_HKEX.pdf Visited Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited to provide students a better understanding of city's securities and derivative markets so as to broaden their horizons. Alumni Experience Sharing to IT & ISD Students (15 Jan 2010, Friday, AScIT, AScISD, AScABS) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2010/20100115_AlumniExperienceSharing.pdf Alumni admitted to Computer Science (CS) or Computer Engineering (CPEG) were invited to share their experience of applying to undergraduate programmes and provide some useful tips for our students to sail through the upcoming degree journey. A visit to RFID Centre (26 February 2010, Friday, AScIT, AScISD) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2010/20100309_RFID.pdf Visited the Hong Kong RFID Centre to broaden our students' horizon on the use of RFID technology on different areas of Hong Kong. Representatives from RFID centre also demonstrated some innovative RFID applications that will be showcased at Shanghai World Expo 2010. A talk on Sustainable Development for students in Environmental Studies Programmes, conducted by Business Environment Council (BEC) (26 April 2010, Monday, AScES) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2010/20100426_BEC.pdf Invited the Business Environment Council (BEC) to give a talk on Sustainable Development and Corporate Sustainability. WuYi University Study Tour (24-28 May 2010, AScES) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2010/201005_WuyiLab.pdf Report from WuYi University, China Visited WuYi University to provide students with practical hand-on experience in using basic laboratory experimentas to obtain chemical and bacteriological data on air and water samples; and analyzing chemical and bacteriological data from air and water samples to determine its environmental significance. [ Equivalent to DCO10213 Environmental Studies Laboratory ] FYP Supervision and Consultation IT01: Colour Scheme (Awarded the Best IT Project) (Lau Ming Hung Ken, Lau Tak Ken, Ng Pik Yi, Yim Ting Ting) - Project Description Activity Report for FYP IT03: Felicity Century Hotel Reservation System (Supervised by Mr. Derek CHEUNG) (Liu Xiang, Wang Han, Zhang Hanyu) - Project Description ISD02: User-friendly Information System for the Festival Walk Marketing (Supervised by Renee LO) (Chan Ho Pui, Cheng Sui Kin, Ng San Hin, Ng Ka Wai, Tsang Tsz Heung) - Project Description X Division of Computer Studies, Community College of City University Administrative Duties, Academic Year 2008/09 Divisional Roles Tutor of the Associate Degree of Science in Information System Development (ISD) Programme for both year 1 and year 2 students Member of the Associate Degree of Science in Network and Systems Administration (NSA) Programme Student Academic Advisor Safety Committee of the Management Board Planning Committee Member of the Programme on Environmental Studies Seminars / Workshops Attended Attended courses organized by Occupational Safety and Health Council (OSHC) Certificate of Competence in Display Screen Equipment Assessment Emergency Aid (Conducted by Auxiliary Medical Service and the OSHC) Administrative Services Course Materials Preparation for DCO12000 Environment, Technology and Future Departmental Activities Organizer A study tour to Macau (5-6 January 2009, AScIT, AEng) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2009/20090105_Macau.pdf Report from Macau Polytechnic Institute Places visited: Macau University of Science & Technology (MUST) Macau Polytechnic Institute Macau Productivity and Technology Transfer Center (CPTTM) A technical visit to Ngong Ping 360 (16 May 2009, AEng, AScAOAL, AScIT, AScNSA) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2009/20090516_NP360.pdf Visited Ngong Ping 360 to enlighten students on the design, construction and operational safety. A technical visit to Hong Kong RFID Centre (21 July 2009, AEng, AScIT) http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/cnt_Stud_Activities/documents/2009/20090721_SCIC.pdf Visited the Hong Kong RFID Centre to broaden our students' horizon on the use of RFID technology on different areas of Hong Kong. FYP Supervision and Consultation IT02: Live Project: Network Video Display System for MTR Corporation (Yiu Ngan Yuk, Chong Pik Ha, Cheng Wing Shan, Wong Po Tin) - Project Description The Certificate of Merit Award IT01: An Online Campus Directory Searching System (Supervised by Dr. Ho Lam LAU) (Man Yiu Chung, Wan Chun Wa, Ko Chung Ming, Ng Ho Tong) - Project Description The Champion Award URL: http://www.dco.cityu.edu.hk/locationMap/index.php The FYP was positively reported by Sing Tao Daily on 19 June 2009: Link IT03: Investment Portfolio Performance Retrieval (Supervised by Ms. Renee LO) (Ho Tak Kin, Ng Pak Ho, Chau Kwok Ken, Law Wai Kit) - Project Description Project Supervision Final Year Projects, Open Competitions, etc. 2018-2019 - Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Final Year Project Management System (Remastered) SU Heng, DEL MUNDO Gian Miguel Sero, MOHAMAD Randitya Setyawan, WU Yun-ju Augmented Reality Store Platform Semi-finalist of 2019 President's Cup KOSASIH Angelica, LIU Chi Yan, SUHARTONO Kristian Microsurgery Mobile VR Simulation Platform (Co-supervised with Dr. SONG Shenghui) DONG Tian, LEUNG Ka Wai Aidan, NG Tsz Kin, SIU Ho Lam, TUNG Ka Kan A Mobile App for Reducing Food Waste (Co-supervised with Dr. LAM Ngok) CHUGH Rhea, IVANOV Metodi Dimitrov, GUNAWAN Calvinthio, BRADLEY Edward Alan Multiplayer VR Game Development with Leap Motion (Co-supervised with Dr. CHAN Ki Cecia) LAU Kwun Pong, CHAN Hiu Tung, TAM Tung Man, CHOW Ka Chun 2017-2018 - Hong Kong University of Science and Technology RESTRIP, Cyberport University Partnership Programme (CUPP) HUANG Yining, Caroline Virtual Reality Game Development using Unity and Leap Motion / Kinect LEE Ho Ting, KEUNG Bryan, LAM Jouq Hang Hendersen, NG Man Yan Virtual Reality Game Development using Unity and Leap Motion / Kinect WONG Man Ting, PANG Hong Ching, KOON Ka Ho, WONG Yuk Fong A Mobile App using AR and Location-based Technologies for Promoting Self-motivated Learning (" WalkARound ") CHENG Wang On, WONG Cheuk Yie Ezekiel, NG Brandon Chun Yin, LEUNG Wai Hin Virtual Reality Education Software for Kindergarten / Primary School Students CHEUNG Sze Po, CHAN Tak Sing, LO Ka Leung, MO Chun Yuen Virtual Reality Game Development using Unity and Leap Motion / Kinect (Co-supervised with Dr. LAM Ngok) CHONG Ka Yan, LEE Chun Ho, WONG Hin Yung, LIU Hoi Yi Audrey Autonomous Domestic Water Purification System with Mobile Application (Co-supervised with Prof. LAM Frank L.Y.) - Champion Award of HKIE Environmental Division Prize for Best Final Year Environmental Project 2017/18 ( Department news ), - ASM Technology Award 2018: Project Nomination Award, Peer Recognition Award ( Photo ), - Gold Award of 2018 President's Cup , - 2nd Runner-up in the Young Professionals Exhibition & Competition 2018 (YPEC 2018) (Undergraduate Section) ( Department news ), - Best Poster Award (aka Best FYP Award) of the Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, and - Best FYP Award of the Department of Computer Science and Engineering LEE Dustin, FOK Ming Kit, LEE Ho Long Barry, FUNG Ka Yi 2016-2017 - Hong Kong University of Science and Technology A Novel, Decentralized Hardware & Software Infrastructure for Creating Disaster-proof, Scalable, and Secure Real-time Big-data IoT Solutions, President's Cup IWASAKI Kenta and TANUBRATA Hans Ryan Virtual Reality Game Development using Unity and Leap Motion ("Return") CHAN Long Hei Stanley, HUANG Jiaxi, MAK Wing Tao, NGO Yu Ki Virtual Reality Game Development using Unity and Leap Motion (" Treasure Island ") Best FYP Award and Best FYP Video Award LEE Chun On, SIN Wing Lam, WONG Chun Yin Responsive Image Processing Mobile Application ("Spark") LAM Chak Tim, LAM Cheuk Ming, LUI Chun Wang, WONG Chau Shing Using Technology to Masquerade the User's Face Best FYP Award and Best FYP Video Award CHIU Tsz Tsun, CHOY Ka Wai Jocelyn, LO Leong Cheung, NG Kai Hong Document Imaging System using Kinect LAM Wai Hin, TSE Cheuk Hei, YUEN Yiu Tung 2015-2016 - Hong Kong Polytechnic University CalliLearning (Collegiate Contest of Educational Technology) GENG Sihua, LAM Tsz Ching, TSE Tin Chi, WAN Ka Wa Kinect Sport System for Tai Chi (Collegiate Contest of Educational Technology) Winner CHAN Kwan Wing, CHEUNG Chi Ho, LEE Chun Wing, YIM Kam Yeung 2014-2015 - City University of Hong Kong Easy Electronic Ticket - RFID Based Dynamic Electronic Ticket (HK U-21 IoT Awards) Certificate of Merit CHAN See Yu, CHU Wai Yin , CHENG Man Cheong, LO Leong Cheung, SO Ka Ho Brian, YIP Wai Ting Alex 2013-2014 - City University of Hong Kong Novel Interaction Framework for Google Glass (Live Project offered by MTel Limited) FAN Wai Ho, LEUNG Pui Kuen, LI Kin Fai, LO Chun Sing, MOK Ho Ting Digital Notice Board System AU Ho Yen, HO wing Yin Monique, LEE Man Ho, MAK Wai Sum Mobile Shopping System SZE Shing, TSUI Tsz Tung Food Safety Management System using RFID (HK U-21 IoT Awards) Certificate of Merit CHAN Chung Yau Johnny and LUI Shing Lung Joseph 2012-2013 - City University of Hong Kong Event Planner Mobile Application (Live Project offered by MTel Limited) Certificate of Merit CHAR Lik Hang , LI In, NGAN Ka Hei, SIU Kai Chung, YAU Ka Kin iGreeting - Greeting Card with Augmented Reality CHAN Kin, CHEUNG Kwai Keung, HAR Chiu Kwong Samson, LAM Cheuk Man, LAM Wai Kit 2011-2012 - City University of Hong Kong Quick Response Mobile Shopping System (QR-MSS) CHONG Ho Ming, LAU Sui Ting, TSANG Wing Shan, WONG Ka Fai, YIU Yuk Lun Kinect Presentation System (KPS) Certificate of Merit PUN Yat Yu Dickson, HO Kwok Hung Thomas, LAI Chung Yin Kelvin, YEUNG Pak Cheong Teddy Examination Management System using RFID (HK U-21 RFID Awards) Certificate of Merit CHAN Chung Yau Johnny Electronic Data Card using RFID Certificate of Merit CHAR Lik Hang 2010-2011 - City University of Hong Kong Web-based Project Management System (Live project offered by Fusion System Limited) CHAN Sen, CHENG Lai Hei, CHOW Pak Kin, PUN Ho Ting, ZHOU Xu Apps Tailor Certificate of Merit CHAN Sui Pang, CHEUNG Chun Sum, JOR Yu Hin, NG Ting Kong, TSANG Tim Lung 2009-2010 - City University of Hong Kong Colour Scheme Best IT Project LAU Ming Hung Ken, LAU Tak Ken, NG Pik Yi, YIM Ting Ting Felicity Century Hotel Reservation System (Co-supervised with Mr. Derek CHEUNG) LIU Xiang, WANG Han, ZHANG Hanyu User-friendly Information System for the Festival Walk Marketing (Co-supervised with Renee LO) CHAN Ho Pui, CHENG Sui Kin, NG Ka Wai, NG San Hin, TSANG Tsz Heung 2008-2009 - City University of Hong Kong Live Project: Network Video Display System for MTR Corporation (Live project offered by MTR) Certificate of Merit CHENG Wing Shan, CHONG Pik Ha, YIU Ngan Yuk, WONG Po Tin An Online Campus Directory Searching System (Co-supervised with Dr. Ho Lam LAU) Champion Award KO Chung Ming, MAN Yiu Chung, NG Ho Tong, WAN Chun Wa Investment Portfolio Performance Retrieval (Co-supervised with Ms. Renee LO) CHAU Kwok Ken, HO Tak Kin, LAW Wai Kit, NG Pak Ho Weekly Schedule Get in touch with me Useful Links HKUST Intranet: http://www.ust.hk/intranet/ HKUST CSE Website: http://www.cse.ust.hk/ HKUST Webmail: https://sqmail.ust.hk/src/login.php HKUST Important Dates: http://caldates.ust.hk/cgi-bin/eng/index.php HKUST Academic Calendar 2018-19: http://registry.ust.hk/calendar_dates/dates18-19confirmed.pdf HKUST Course Registration Status (Spring 2019): https://w5.ab.ust.hk/wcq/cgi-bin/1830/subject/COMP HKUST Online Booking Form: https://www.ab.ust.hk/cso/ffb_form_direct.htm Copyright 2019 Desmond Tsoi. All Rights Reserved. Home About Teaching Administration Weekly Schedule 
