 More about HKUST University News Academic Departments A-Z Life@HKUST Library Map & Directions Jobs@HKUST Faculty Profiles About HKUST Intranet School of Engineering Quick Links for Undergraduates Postgraduates Faculty & Staff Alumni Job Seekers Employers About Welcome Mission & Vision About CSE Fast Facts News & Events Job Openings Contact Us People Faculty Staff Postgraduates Alumni Research Research Areas Research Labs & Centers Research Projects Computing Facilities Academics Undergraduate Postgraduate Enrichment Quality Assurance Admissions Undergraduate Postgraduate PG Early Recruiting Graduate Placements School of Engineering Roland T. CHIN Roland T. CHIN PhD in Electrical Engineering, University of Missouri Professor Emeritus Email: roland@cse.ust.hk Email roland@cse.ust.hk Research Interests Computer vision; image processing; pattern recognition; digital signal processing. Biography Professor Chin received the BS degree with honors in 1975 and the PhD degree in 1979, in electrical engineering from the University of Missouri, Columbia. From 1979 to 1981, he was a researcher at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Maryland. He was on the faculty of Electrical & Computer Engineering at the University of Wisconsin, Madison from 1981 to 1995; served as Associate Department Chair from 1986 to 1990 and became a Professor in 1989. Since 1992, he has been on the faculty of the Computer Science Department of Hong Kong University of Science & Technology. Professor Chin was the recipient of the NSF Presidential Young Investigator Award in 1984. He had served on the editorial board of Asian Pacific Engineering Journal, as an Associated Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, and an Associated Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence. Navigation Navigation People Faculty Staff Postgraduates Alumni About Welcome Mission & Vision About CSE Fast Facts News & Events Job Openings Contact Us People Faculty Staff Postgraduates Alumni Research Research Areas Research Labs & Centers Research Projects Computing Facilities Academics Undergraduate Postgraduate Enrichment Quality Assurance Admissions Undergraduate Postgraduate PG Early Recruiting Graduate Placements Last updated on 2018-01-16 Privacy Sitemap Copyright The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Follow us on Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Contact Us Privacy Sitemap Follow us on Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Contact Us Copyright The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. 
