 Home Profile Research University Service International Service Teaching Links Education Teaching and Research Experience Leadership Positions in Administration and Research Visiting and Honorary Positions Held Consultancy and Industrial Service Honors and Awards Research Interest Research Publications Grouped In Chronological Order Research Publications Grouped By Type Research Publications Grouped By Research Topic Research Group Research Funding and Contracts Research Student Supervision University-Founding Experience International Governmental Bodies Hong Kong Wide-Level Experience University-Level Experience School-Level Experience Department-Level Experience Elected Office Membership in Professional and Technical Organization Journal's Editorial Service International Conferences/Workshops Service International Referee Teaching Awards Spring 2013 Teaching Courses Taught Final Year Project Supervision Mounir HAMDI Head & Chair Professor, IEEE Fellow Department of Computer Science and Engineering Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Email: hamdi@cse.ust.hk Tel:(+852) 2358 6988/6984 (direct line) (+852) 2358 7009 (secretary) Fax: (+852) 2358 2679 News Brief information about our Department News about our Department Our Department Ranking: Academic Ranking of World Universities QS World University Rankings Our Department Information Video: CSE@Youtube Brief Biography Mounir Hamdi is a Chair Professor at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, and the Head of the Department of Computer Science and Engineering. He is an IEEE Fellow for contributions to design and analysis of high-speed packet switching . He received the B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering - Computer Engineering minor (with distinction) from the University of Louisiana in 1985, and the MS and the PhD degrees in Electrical Engineering from the University of Pittsburgh in 1987 and 1991, respectively. He has been a faculty member in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology since 1991, where he was a founding member of the University and the Department. He is now the Head and Chair Professor of the Department that has around 800 undergraduate and graduate students. He was the Director of the Computer Engineering Program (for 10 years) that has around 330 undergraduate students, Director of the Master of Science in Information Technology (for 3 years) which has more than 150 graduate students, and Director of the Computer Engineering research Lab. He is/was a member of the University Senate and University Council. In 1999 to 2000 he held visiting professor positions at Stanford University , USA, and the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology , Lausanne, Switzerland. His general area of research is in high-speed wired/wireless networking in which he has published around 300 research publications, received numerous research grants, and graduated more 30 graduate students. In addition, he has frequently consulted for companies and governmental organizations in the USA, Europe and Asia on high-performance Internet routers and switches as well as high-speed wireless LANs. He is a frequent keynote speaker in International Conferences and Forums. Prof. Hamdi is/was on the Editorial Board of various prestigious journals and magazines including IEEE Transactions on Communications, IEEE Communication Magazine, Computer Networks, Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing, and Parallel Computing as well as a guest editor of IEEE Communications Magazine, guest editor-in-chief of two special issues of IEEE Journal on Selected Areas of Communications, and a guest editor of Optical Networks Magazine. He has chaired more than 20 international conferences and workshops including The IEEE International High Performance Switching and Routing Conference, the IEEE GLOBECOM/ICC Optical networking workshop, the IEEE ICC High-speed Access Workshop, and the IEEE IPPS HiNets Workshop, and has been on the program committees of more than 200 international conferences and workshops. He was the Chair of IEEE Communications Society Technical Committee on Transmissions, Access and Optical Systems, and Vice-Chair of the Optical Networking Technical Committee, as well as member of the ComSoc technical activities council. He received the best paper award at the IEEE International Conference on Communications in 2009 and the IEEE International Conference on Information and Networking in 1998. He also supervised the best PhD paper award amongst all universities in Hong Kong. In addition to his commitment to research and professional service, he is also a dedicated teacher and renowned quality-assurance educator. He received the best 10 lecturers award (through university-wide student voting for all university faculty held once a year), the distinguished engineering teaching appreciation award from the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, and various grants targeted towards the improvement of teaching methodologies, delivery and technology. He is frequently involved in higher education quality assurance activities as well as engineering programs accreditation. More than visited since April 7, 2002. 2011 
