Home Resources Find Resources by Topic Tags Cybersecurity Policy Chart CSIAC Reports Webinars Podcasts Cybersecurity Digest Standards & Reference Docs Journals Certifications Acronym DB Cybersecurity Related Websites Services Free Technical Inquiry CAT Program Subject Matter Experts Training Contact Community Upcoming Events Cybersecurity Modeling & Simulation Knowledge Management Software Engineering Cyber COI About About the CSIAC The CSIAC Team DTICs IAC Program DTICs R&E Gateway Inquiries & CATs FAQs DTIC STI Program Search this website Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer Login / Register CSIAC Cyber Security and Information Systems Information Analysis Center Resources Find Resources by Topic Tags Cybersecurity Policy Chart CSIAC Reports Webinars Podcasts Cybersecurity Digest Standards & Reference Docs Journals Certifications Acronym DB Cybersecurity Websites Services Free Technical Inquiry CAT Program Subject Matter Experts Training Contact Community Upcoming Events Cybersecurity Modeling & Simulation Knowledge Management Software Engineering Cyber COI About About the CSIAC The CSIAC Team DTICs IAC Program DTICs R&E Gateway Inquiries & CATs FAQs DTIC STI Program Search this website Cybersecurity Modeling & Simulation Knowledge Management Software Engineering Cyber COI / Authors & Presenters / Dr. Kevin A. Kwiat Dr. Kevin A. Kwiat Dr. Kevin A. Kwiat is a Principal Computer Engineer in the Cyber Assurance Branch of the AFRL in Rome, NY where he has worked for over 28 years. He received his B.S. in Computer Science, B.A. in Mathematics from Utica College of Syracuse University, as well as his M.S. in Computer Engineering and the Ph.D. in Computer Engineering from Syracuse University. He is an NRC Adviser, acting as a surrogate of the NRC in monitoring his designated research associates and all matters relating to an associates research program fall under his purview. Journal Articles Bridging Fault Tolerance and Game Theory for Assuring Cyberspace 0 Share Share on Facebook 0 shares on Facebook Tweet Tweet this Two Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR)-funded in-house efforts have shaped the way that AFRL/RI has bridged fault tolerance and game theory: Fault Tolerance for Fight-Through (FTFT) and STORM: Survivability Through Optimizing Resilient Mechanisms. FTFT was the forerunner of Read More Air Force Research Laboratorys In-Residence Professor Becomes Cybersecurity Preceptor in South Korea 0 Share Share on Facebook 0 shares on Facebook Tweet Tweet this The Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) is fortunate to have one of its subject matter experts (SMEs) working hand-in-hand with South Korea as it looks to advance its cybersecurity capabilities. This SME acquired his expertise prior to his affiliation with Read More Reader Interactions Leave a Comment Cancel You must be logged in to post a comment. sidebar Blog Sidebar Featured Content The DoD Cybersecurity Policy Chart This chart captures the tremendous breadth of applicable policies, some of which many cybersecurity professionals may not even be aware, in a helpful organizational scheme. View the Policy Chart CSIAC Journal - Launching Innovation Through Medical Modeling and Simulation Technologies This Special Edition of the Journal will provide a glimpse into current efforts to improve military medical training with simulation-based solutions. Read the Journal CSIAC Journal - Innovation Based Ecosystems This issue of the Journal of Cyber Security & Information Systems explores how managing fast adoption modern-based system has more to do with understanding capabilities, interdependency between systems and effectively operating in the new paradigm than it has to do with differentiating product features. Read the Journal Recent Video Podcasts What is DevOps? from a tools point of view Series: CSIAC Webinars 5th Generation (5G) Technology Series: The CSIAC Podcast Malvertising Explored Series: The CSIAC Podcast Cybersecurity Arms Race Modernizing the Arsenal Series: CSIAC Webinars Cyber Situational Awareness Series: The CSIAC Podcast View all Podcasts Upcoming Events Thu 28 BSides Columbus 2019 February 28 - March 1 Columbus OH United States Organizer: BSides Columbus Mar 19 1st NATO Industry Workshop on Autonomous Cyber Defence March 19 @ 09:30 - 16:00 EDT Cranfield Bedfordshire MK43 0AL United Kingdom Organizer: Cranfield University View all Events Recently Active Members Footer CSIAC Products & Services Free Technical Inquiry Core Analysis Tasks (CATs) Resources Events Calendar Frequently Asked Questions Product Feedback Form About CSIAC The CSIAC is a DoD-sponsored Center of Excellence in the fields of Cybersecurity, Software Engineering, Modeling & Simulation, and Knowledge Management & Information Sharing. Learn More Contact Us Phone: 800-214-7921 Email: info@csiac.org Address: 266 Genesee St. Utica, NY 13502 Send us a Message Copyright 2018, Quanterion Solutions Incorporated Sitemap | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Accessibility Information This website uses cookies to provide our services and to improve your experience. By using this site, you consent to the use of our cookies. To read more about the use of our site, please click "Read More". Otherwise, click "Dismiss" to hide this notice. Dismiss Read More 
