Director of Learning & Teaching and Senior Lecturer in the Department of Computer Science, Chartered IT Professional Fellow (FBCS CITP) and member of the EPSRC Peer Review College. Research interests include Cloud Computing, Ontology Learning, Information Retrieval and Information Extraction. Founding Editor-in-Chief of the Springer Journal of Cloud Computing Advances, Systems and Applications (JoCCASA), an editor of a Springer book on Cloud Computing, and member of the Cloud Pro expert panel. Recently, PI on the successfully completed TSB project (IPCRESS), collaborative with Jaguar Land Rover, to create a private search capability. Previously, PI on an EPSRC Project about Fair Benchmarking for Cloud Computing Systems, a co-author of two reports for EPSRC/JISC on Cloud Computing (Research Use Cases, and Costs) and a keen user and proponent of various Cloud infrastructures with several small grants received in support of this work. A key line of investigation in this work relates to service level agreement (SLA) driven Cloud brokerage. Involved with securing 4th place in the External Plagiarism Detection Task of the 2011 Uncovering Plagiarism, Authorship, and Social Software Misuse (PAN) competition, with software running on Amazon EC2, and in various tasks of the 2012, 2013 and 2014 PAN. The novelty of our approach to Plagiarism has resulted in the filing of two patent applications (U.S. Patent filing US13/307,428, filed 30th November 2011; PCT/GB2012/000883, filed 30th November 2012). Participation in PAN has covered author identification, author profiling, and predator detection. Has been responsible for software architectures for a number of systems developed for research projects supported by the EU's IT Research and Development programmes - TRANSTERM, POINTER, INTERVAL, ACE, SALT , GIDA, and PI on the eContent project LIRICS - and the UK EPSRC and ESRC - SAFE-DIS, SOCIS and FINGRID.For further information, see: Personal Pages16.06.15Read moreFor full list of publications, see: Personal Pages
