I am a Lecturer in Artificial Intelligence inthe Department of Computer Scienceand a member of the Nature Inspired Computing and Engineering (NICE) Group. Prior to joining Surrey, I wasa Postdoctoral Research Assistant in Machine Learning workingwithSteve Robertsinthe Machine Learning Research Group,University of Oxford. I was also a Junior Research Fellow at theWolfson College, University ofOxford.I completed my Ph.D. in electrical engineering with Mark CoatesatMcGill Universityin Montral, Canada.My research interests are in the areas of machine learning and statistical signal processing. I have a particular interest in designing Bayesian and Monte Carlo inference techniques effective in high-dimensional spaces. I have applied machine learning and signal processing techniques to diverse problem domains including environmental acoustic detection, device-free target tracking in sensor networks, and microwave breast cancer detection.I am actively looking for PhD students with a strong interestand backgroundin deeplearning and Bayesian inference. Please contact me if you are interested in working with me.I aminterested in foundational machine learning topics motivated by applications aiming to improve human life and environment. I am currently working on improvingthe ability of deep neural networks to quantify uncertainty in their predictions, which can benefit vast data science domains, from disease diagnostics to autonomous driving. My work on Monte Carlo sampling and Bayesian classifier fusion has found applications in microwave breast cancer detection, device-free people tracking for smart home, and malaria-vectoring mosquito detection using low-cost mobile phones. My research is impact-driven and received media coverage from MIT Technology Review, Digital Trends,New Scientist, The Guardian, BBC, among other venues.I will teachCOM1033: Foundations of ComputingII in2018/19.I am aYear 1 (undergraduate) Coordinator and Personal Tutor in 2018/19.Google Scholarmaintains an update-to-date list of my publications.
