Skip to Content College of Arts and Sciences UB Home Maps UB Directory Department of Economics Apply Contact Us Make a Gift Menu Search Loading menu... About Economics at UB What is Economics? Careers in Economics Meet Our Students Leadership and Administration Support the Department Contact Us Related Links 7/9/18 About the College of Arts and Sciences 7/9/18 About the University at Buffalo 7/9/18 About the Buffalo-Niagara Region Undergraduate Undergraduate Overview BA in Economics Joint Major Combined Degrees Minor in Economics Honors Program Undergraduate Courses Experiential Learning Opportunities Financial Aid, Scholarships and Awards Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Graduate Overview PhD in Economics Master's Degrees Advanced Certificate in Applied Economics Graduate Courses Student Clubs and Organizations Financial Aid and Assistantships Request Information Graduate Admissions Faculty Core Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Directory Research Research Areas Recent and Forthcoming Publications News & Events Seminar Series Faculty News Student News Alumni Update Your Information Search Search Info For Current Students Transfer Students Faculty and Staff Department of Economics > Faculty > Adjunct Faculty > Liu, Zhen Faculty Core Faculty Adjunct Faculty Staff Directory Zhen Liu PhD Zhen Liu PhD Adjunct Lecturer Department of Economics College of Arts and Sciences Research Interests Information economics; Behavioral economics; Financial markets Contact Information 415 Fronczak Hall Buffalo NY, 14260-1520 Phone: (716) 645-8691 zl24@ buffalo.edu Education PhD, Stony Brook University MA, Stony Brook University BA, Economics, Tsinghua University Works in Progress Fair disclosure and investor asymmetric awareness in stock markets, The dirty face problem with unawareness, The B.E. Journal of Theoretical Economics , forthcoming. Social security literacy and retirement well-being, with Hugo Benitez-silva and Berna Demiralp, in progress. What do you care what others do? The herding of comparable firms on earnings management, with Weihao Xu, in progress. Justifying cursed equilibrium via partial awareness, in progress. Other Contributions and Distinctions Research grant from Michigan Retirement Research Center. 2008-2009 Seed Grant for Survey Research. V.P. for Research at SUNY-Stony Brook, and Center for Survey Research. 2007 Outstanding Doctoral Student Paper Award. The 2007 American Accounting Association Mid-Atlantic Regional Meeting. 2006-2007 Department of Economics 415 Fronczak Hall University at Buffalo, North Campus Buffalo, NY 14260-1520 (716) 645-8670 2019 University at Buffalo . All rights reserved.| Privacy | Accessibility
