Dr Mark Manulis is Deputy-Director of the Surrey Centre for Cyber Security (SCCS) and Associate Professor (Senior Lecturer) in the Department of Computer Science of the University of Surrey.Prior to this appointment Mark worked as Assistant Professor at the Department of Computer Science of the TU Darmstadt in Germany, where he led the Cryptographic Protocols Group. As Principal Investigator he was further associated with the Center for Advanced Security Research Darmstadt (CASED) and the European Center for Security and Privacy by Design (EC SPRIDE). Mark obtained his PhD in Cryptography and Information Security from the Ruhr-University Bochum (Germany) and spent his post-doc time with the UCL Crypto Group at the Universite catholique de Louvain (Belgium). He holds Dipl.-Inform. and M.Sc. degrees in Computer Science from the TU Braunschweig (Germany).Mark has published over 80 peer-reviewed research publications and is a regular member of program committees of international information security conferences. He was programme chair of ISC 2018 and ACNS 2016, general chair of CANS 2012 and PKC 2012, and is sitting on the editorial boards of IET Information Security. His research interests include authentication and key management, anonymity and privacy, design and formal analysis of cryptographic protocols, network security, security in distributed systems, wireless networks, and user-centric security.Please refer for full information to his personal academic website: www.manulis.euYear 2017-Year 2014/2015/2016Year 2013/2014Year 2012/2013Year 2011/2012We identify a class of encryption schemes with publicly verifiable ciphertexts that admit generic constructions of (non-trivial) IND-CCA/ CPA filters. These schemes are characterized by existence of public algorithms that can distinguish between valid and invalid ciphertexts. To this end, we formally define (non-trivial) public verifiability of ciphertexts for general encryption schemes, key encapsulation mechanisms, and hybrid encryption schemes, encompassing public-key, identity-based, and tag-based encryption flavors. We further analyze the security impact of public verifiability and discuss generic transformations and concrete constructions that enjoy this property.We formalize the notion of attribute hiding in the presence of revocation and propose an RPE scheme, called AH-RPE, which achieves attribute-hiding under the Decision Linear assumption in the standard model.We then present a stronger privacy notion, termed full hiding, which further cares about privacy of revoked users. We propose another RPE scheme, called FH-RPE, that adopts the Subset Cover Framework and offers full hiding under the Decision Linear assumption in the standard model. The scheme offers very flexible privacy-preserving access control to encrypted data and can be used in sender-local revocation scenarios.Our first contribution is revised definitions of security for GKE protocols considering KCI attacks by both outsider and insider adversaries. We also give a new proof of security for an existing two-round GKE protocol under the revised security definitions assuming random oracles. We then show how to achieve insider KCIR in a generic way using a known compiler in the literature. As one may expect, this additional security assurance comes at the cost of an extra round of communication. Finally, we show that a few existing protocols are not secure against outsider KCI attacks. The attacks on these protocols illustrate the necessity of considering KCI resilience for GKE protocols.Only little work on practical aspects of AH schemes, pursuing optimized implementations and deployment, has been done so far, and the main question a practitioner might ask --- whether affiliation-hiding schemes are truly practical today --- remained widely unanswered. Improving upon recent advances in the area of AH protocols, in particular on pioneering results in the multi-affiliation setting, we can give an affirmative answer to this question. To this end, we propose numerous algorithmic optimizations to a recent AH scheme leading to a remarkable performance gain. Our results are demonstrated not only at theoretical level, but we also offer implementations, performance measurements, and comparisons. At the same time, our improvements advance the area of efficient polynomial interpolation in finite fields, which is one of our building blocks.Classical mechanisms such as VPNs can protect end-to-end communication between the mobile device and its home network while remaining transparent to the routing infrastructure. In WMNs this transparency can be misused for packet injection leading to the unnecessary consumption of the communication bandwidth. This may have negative impact on the cooperation of mesh routers which is essential for the connection establishment.In this paper we describe how to establish remote connections inside WMNs while guaranteeing secure end-to-end communication between the mobile device and its home network and secure transmission of the corresponding packets along the underlying multi-hop path. Our solution is a provably secure, yet lightweight and round-optimal remote network access protocol in which intermediate mesh routers are considered to be part of the security architecture. We also sketch some ideas on the practical realization of the protocol using known standards and mention extensions with regard to forward secrecy, anonymity and accounting.In this paper we formally specify mutual authentication and key establishment goals for WRT and propose an efficient and provably secure protocol that can be used to secure such roaming session. Additionally, we describe some modular protocol extensions to address resistance against DoS attacks, anonymity of the mobile device and unlinkability of its roaming sessions, as well as the accounting claims of the foreign network in commercial scenarios.The proposed 3KE protocol is an implicitly authenticated protocol with one communication round which remains secure even in the event of ephemeral secret leakage. It also significantly improves upon currently known 3KE protocols, many of which are insecure. An optional key confirmation round can be added to our proposal to achieve the explicitly authenticated protocol variantIn this paper we address security of cookie-based authentication using the concept of strong locked same origin policy for browsers introduced at ACM CCS?07. We describe a cookie-based authentication protocol between human users and TLS-servers and prove its security in the extended formal model for browser-based mutual authentication introduced at ACM ASIACCS?08. It turns out that the small modification of the browser?s security policy is sufficient to achieve provably secure cookie-based authentication protocols considering the ability of users to recognize images, video, or audio sequences.
