Sotiris received the BSc degree in Mathematics from the University of Patras, Greece, the MSc in Information Systems and PhD in Computer Science from the University of Surrey, UK. His research is on the application of mathematical methods and computational techniques to the design andanalysis of complex systems. He has worked on several UK and EU funded research projects.Sotiris is the Principal Investigator(PI) on theReal-Time Flow(RTF) project, funded by EIT Digital.This is a collaboration with Amey (lead), Ferrovialand Emu Analytics on transport networks and predictive analytics. The ideais to control the underlying networks and reconfigure them so that they dynamically adapt to the actual usage made of them while people and goods move around the city.He is the PI on the Onward Journey Planning Assistant (OJPA) project which is funded by Innovate UK under the Accelerating Innovation in Rail 4 (AIR4) programme. Passenger data segmentation, learning classifier systems and complex decision control feature prominently in this research. The aim is to develop technology that provides a concierge-like experience to railpassengers.He is a co-Investigator (CI) on the SAFRON (Safe Operational Radio Network for mixed-priority communications to trains using a shared architecture) project which is funded by the Department for Transport via Innovate UK under the AIR5 programme. Wireless security on communicationsbetween onand off traindevices featuresprominently in this research.Sotiris is the PIon a KTP with Clearswift RUAG Cyber Securitywhich looks at the application of machine learning and clustering for adaptive data lossprevention.Sotiris is a CIon ERIE (Evolution and Resilience of Industrial Ecosystems), which is a 6-year programme of research funded by EPSRC, under the Complexity Science for the Real World programme. It involves Sociology (CRESS), Mathematics, and the Centre for Environmental Strategy (all at Surrey). Sotiris leads the path-dependency analysis stream in ERIE and the development of the complex control tool CCTool.Sotiris has been involved in Digital Ecosystems research for several years, including the Digital Business Ecosystems (DBE) EU project as well as the OPAALS NoE (funded by EU under IST-FP6), a multi-disciplinary research project on Digital Ecosystems, where he also chairs the Integration Coordination Team (ICT).He is on the Programme Committee for the annual conference onComplex Networks and IEEE Service Oriented Computing and Applications (IEEE SOCA)He is an associate member of the Surrey Centre for Cyber Security (SCCS) which is an Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research (ACE - CSR).My research is on the application of mathematical methods and computational techniques to the (design and) analysis of complex systems. In complex systems, causes and effects are not obviously related so explainable decision control is a challenge. I study how the different parts of the system give rise to collective behaviours as well as the relationship to the environment. I develop tools and techniques (e.g., CCTool) to compute the system levers or drivers which have high influence on the overall system behaviour. This info can then be used to design efficient interventions in the system.This builds on my expertise over the years on verification of distributed and concurrent interactions, in declarative interaction open models. This research is applicable to:The Complex Control tool (CCTool) combines results from structural controllability theory and network analysis to identify the most influential factors in a complex system. It has been used to design the most effective interventions in terms of policy, or to identify the most resilient parts of a system, or the points which accelerate the spread of a disease. This is joint work with Alexandra Penn and Nicholas Elia which originates in the EPSRC ERIE project.Here is a 2min film on Complex Systems (and the ERIE project tool suite called SteerPlex).Here is an online animation tool for exploring the behaviour of web transactions and service choreographies (work in progress, but will give you an idea).Collaborators include academic and industrial partners. My collaborations from academia tend to focus on complex networks, verification and formal methods and are spread across the UK and abroad. My industrial collaborations range from Rail (CommuterHive, SnapOut, GWR, Resonate) to consultancy (Risk Solutions) to Government (RSSB, RDG) to high-tech companies such as resin.ioI collaborate closely with Rulemotion and that resin.io including work on containerised distributed applications involving a number of interconnected devices. Use cases for this work are everywhere, from drone fleets to monitoring devices with applications in healthcare and transport.Software Engineering (COM1028) for First Year (Year 1) undergraduates, in CS and CIT, in Spring 2018-19.Database Systems (COMM051) for Postgraduate Taught students on both MSc programmes in Spring 2018-19.Enterprise Systems Development (COM3011) for Final Year (Year 3) undergraduate students in Autumn 2016-17.Databases and Knowledge Discovery (COMM033) for Postgraduate Taught students in Spring 2014-15.Lecture notes, exercises, and other related material on these courses can be found on SurreyLearn.Admissions Tutor (UG and PG/T).The transaction engine is currently a browser-based tool for animating the behaviour of long-running transactions, involving the execution of online services, and can be found here. This online animation tool is based on a final year project by Pavlos Georgiou, who did the development using state of the art web technologies (including node.js and Javascript in the server). More details can be found in this IEEE-DEST paper reporting on the tool.The application demonstrates the forward execution of a web transaction as well as the recovery execution that needs to take place whenever an error during its forward execution makes this necessary. Both forward and compensating behaviours are driven by the underlying formalism based around the so-called transaction languages. The resulting behaviours of the long-running (web) transaction are animated in terms of the underlying automaton inside the browser. This allows the practitioner (e.g., business analyst) to explore various scenarios before setting up appropriate transactions for their target B2B and B2C applications.21.03.18Read more13.12.17Read more12.12.17Read more
