I am a Lecturer (i.e. Assistant Professor) at the University of Surrey, UK and member of the Surrey Centre for Cyber Security (SCCS), a GCHQ--recognised UK Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research.I am studying cyber security and privacy engineering and decision-making approaches from both a theoretical and practical perspective. I have expertise in developing new models within the above fields and proposing algorithms or methodologies to tackle emerging challenges. I enjoy assessing my theoretical propositions by either simulations (mainly by using Python tools or network event-based simulators) or real-world testbeds.I am actively pursuing research in cyber security and privacy. I am currently co-supervising three PhD students (as third supervisor) who are with the University of Brighton. I am seeking talented post-doctoral researchers and doctoral (PhD) students to join our group at SCCS. Interested candidates, please email me with a copy of their CV and a cover letter.Through successful research and development bids I have secured approximately 1M fund and contributed to another 1M, as detailedhere.I have received the BSc degree in Informatics and Telecommunications from University of Athens, Greece, in 2006 and the MSc degree in Computer Science from Athens University of Economics and Business, Greece in 2008, and PhD degree in Mobile Communications Security from Kingston University London, UK in 2012. Prior to the University of Surrey, I was a Senior Lecturer of Cybersecurity and Privacy at the University of Brighton; invited researcher at Imperial College; postdoctoral researcher at Queen Mary University of London; and a Research and development consultant at Ubitech Technologies Ltd in the Surrey Research Park.I teach Web and Database Systems in year 1 of our BSc courses and Information Security for Business and Government in our MSc Information Security. I have also several years of teaching experience, as detailed here.After I successfully organised the 6thConference on Decision and Game Theory for Security (GameSec 2015) in London, I served as the Technical Program Committee Chair (jointly with Tansu Alpcan, University of Melbourne) of GameSec 2016 (7thConference on Decision and Game Theory for Security). Gamesec is a small but high quality peer-reviewed annual conference. It attracts original submissions in the area of analytical security and privacy with an emphasis on game and decision theory. I am also a reviewer for leading journals by the ACM, IEEE, Elsevier, registered expert with the European Commission and EPSRC reviewer. In addition, I have several years of expertise in preparing EU bids and have secured funds through successful FP7 and H2020 proposals.I am Guest editor of a special issue"Game Theory for Security" of the Games Open Access MDPI journal.I am also reviewer in the following high impact factor journals:13.12.17Read moreI am studying cyber security and privacy engineering and decision-making approaches from both a theoretical and practical perspective. I have expertise in developing new models within the above fields and proposing algorithms or methodologies to tackle emerging challenges. For more information about my research, please see mypublications and research grants.I am currently leading the MSc module "Information Security for Business and Government" (COMM050)and the undergraduate module"Web and Database Systems" (COM1025). I also supervise undergraduateand MSc projects as well as placement students.For the entire list of my publications you can visit:google scholarmywebsite
