 Skip to main content ISU Index Menu iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z ISU Quick Links Menu Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Outlook More Sign Ons... Department of Computer Science Search form Search Main menu Main Menu About CS Academics Research Outreach People Events Industry News Open Positions Support CS Internal You are here Home Myra Cohen Tenure/Tenure Track Faculty People Professor Lanh & Oanh Nguyen Endowed Chair of Software Engineering Myra Cohen is a Professor in the Department of Computer Science at Iowa State University, and the Lanh & Oanh Nguyen Endowed Chair of Software Engineering. Prior to joining the university, Dr. Cohen was previouslytheSusan J. Rosowski Professor in Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln where she was a member of Laboratory for Empirically-based Software Quality Research and Development, ESQuaReD. Her research expertise lies in testing of complex software such as highly-configurable software, software product lines or those with graphical user interfaces, and in search-based software engineering. She received her Ph.D. from the University of Auckland, New Zealand, and was the recipient of an NSF CAREER award, an AFOSR Young Investigator Award, and has received 2 ACM distinguished paper awards. She is currently an ACM Distinguished Scientist, and alsoserves on the steering committee of the IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, ESEC/FSE, and the International Conference on Software Testing. She is currently serving as the program co-chair for ICST 2019 and ESEC/FSE 2020. She has served multiple organizational roles in software engineering conferences, and was the general chair of Automated Software Engineering in 2015. Area of Expertise: Software Engineering Computer Science Education: Ph.D., University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand M.S., University of Vermont B.S. Cornell University, School of Agriculture and Life Sciences Contact mcohen@iastate.edu 515-294-8305 Tags: configuration-aware software testing search based software engineering applications of combinatorial designs Computer Science College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Department of Computer Science 226 Atanasoff Hall Ames, IA 50011-1090 Phone (515) 294-4377 Contact Us Facebook Site Index Site map Copyright 2019 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility 
