 Home Publications Teaching Service Dr. Jingjing Meng Lecturer and Research Assistant Professor Computer Science and Engineering Department University at Buffalo, State University of New York (SUNY) Office: 304 Davis Hall, Buffalo, NY Phone: (716)645-0566 Email: jmeng2 at buffalo dot edu News I will serve as Area Chair for the IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo. (ICME) 2019 I served as Area Chair for the IEEE Conf. on Image Processing (ICIP) 2018 Our work on 3D object recognition was accepted as a spotlight paper to CVPR'18 Our Distributed Composite Quantization work was presented as an oral paper at AAAI'18 Our image hashing work was also presented at AAAI'18 Our work on multi-view video summarization was published in T-IP'18 Our hand gesture recognition work is the most cited paper of IEEE Trans. on Multimedia in the past 5 years according to Google Scholar Bio Jingjing Meng is currently a lecturer and research assistant professor of Computer Science and Engineering Department at SUNY Buffalo . Before that, she was a research fellow at Nanyang Technological University (NTU) , Singapore. Before joining NTU in 2011, she was a Senior Staff Research Engineer in Motorola's Applied Research Center (former Motorola Labs), Schaumburg, IL, where she contributed to projects such as mobile virtual worlds, liquid music and rich media service platforms. She received the Ph.D. degree from NTU , M.S. degree from Vanderbilt University , and B.E. degree from Huazhong University of Science & Technology (HUST), China. Her research interests include computer vision, multimedia, computer graphics, virtual and augmented reality, etc. Jingjing received the Best Paper Award from the IEEE Transactions on Multimedia in 2016. She is Associate Editor of the Visual Computer Journal (TVCJ) and will serve as Area Chair of the IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and Expo. (ICME) 2019. In the past, she served as Area Chair of IEEE Conf. on Image Processing (ICIP) 2018 and Finance Chair for the IEEE Conference on Visual Communications and Image Processing (VCIP) 2015. She is also a member of the IEEE Circuits and Systems Society (CAS) Multimedia Systems and Applications Technical Committee (MSA TC). [Jingjings CV in .pdf] [ Google Scholar ] 
