 GURPUR PRABHU GURPUR PRABHU ( prabhu@cs.iastate.edu ) Department of Computer Science, Iowa State University, Ames, IA 50011 Phone: 515-294-2212 Fax: 515-294-0258 B.Tech (with distinction), 1975, Electronics Engineering, I.I.T. Madras, India M.Tech. 1978, Computer Science, I.I.T. Kanpur, India Ph.D. 1983, Computer Science, Washington State University Major Research Interests: Parallel processing, information integration and information retrieval, applications of special relativity. Other interests: Duplicate bridge. Brief biography: Gurpur Prabhu has been on the faculty of the department of Computer Science at Iowa State University since 1983. He obtained his bachelors degree in electrical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology in Madras, his masters degree in computer science from the Indian Institute of Technology in Kanpur, and his doctoral degree in computer science from Washington State. He has a broad range of interests in computer science and information technology and has published numerous research papers and a textbook on computer architecture and machine-level programming. He has taught courses on object-oriented programming, parallel and distributed computing, and operating systems. He has also conducted workshops and tutorials on business transformation and 3-tier client/server architecture at national and international conferences. He has been researching the area of innovative information technologies during the last decade. His interdisciplinary efforts in IT have resulted in several publications in international conferences such as the Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences and the International Conference on Systems Integration. With the advent of Internet-enabling technologies and E-commerce applications, his research effort in enterprise integration architecture has moved in the direction of developing semantic-based mechanisms to provide true collaborative management of information. While the Internet has connected islands of locally networked computer systems, Dr. Prabhu's focus is on logically bridging isolated islands of data. By making data easy to access and easy to process, Dr. Prabhu's research will advance the state of the art in the development of information fusion applications for scientific discovery using Grid computing, and decision-making domains such as biological sciences, E-commerce, E-governance, and information analysis for combating crime and terrorism. Dr. Prabhu has supervised the research work of several doctoral and masters students. Curriculum Vita e Com S 321 (Home page of course) Computer Architecture Tutorial (An online tutorial with applets) Recent Publications Implementation of Semantic Bridge: Providing Programmable Access to Distributed Heterogeneous Data, (with Prabhakar Balakrishnan), Journal of Computer Science, Informatics & Electrical Engineering , 2 (1), pp. 1-14, 2008. Design of Semantic Bridge: A generalized web service providing programmable access to distributed heterogeneous data, (with Prabhakar Balakrishnan), Journal of Engineering, Computing and Architecture, 1 (2), pp. 1-12, 2007. Lorentz transformations with arbitrary line of motion, (with Chandru Iyer), Eur. J. Phys. 28 (2), pp. 183-190, 2007. Optimization rules in DLV for the bridge crossing problem, (with Sayan Ranu and P. Balakrishnan), Journal of Engineering, Computing and Architecture, 1 (1), pp. 1-15, 2007. A variation of the clock paradox and a distinguishing feature of an inertial frame, (with Chandru Iyer), Journal of Physical and Natural Sciences , 1 (1), pp. 1-8, 2007. Reply to comment on Lorentz transformations with arbitrary line of motion, (with Chandru Iyer), Eur. J. Phys . 28 (3), pp. L15-L16, 2007. Composition of two Lorentz boosts through spatial and space-time rotations, (with Chandru Iyer), Journal of Physical and Natural Sciences , 1 (2), pp. 1-8, 2007. Differing observations on the landing of the rod into the slot, (with Chandru Iyer), Am. J. Phys. 74 (11), pp. 998-1001, 2006. Reversal in the time order of interactive events: collision of inclined rods, (with Chandru Iyer), Eur. J. Phys. 27 (4), pp. 819-824, 2006. " Programmable access to distributed data: Design of Semantic Bridge "(with Prabhakar Balakrishnan),2nd IASTED International Conference on Communications, Internet, and Information Technology, Scottsdale,Arizona,pp.589-594,2003. "Parallel Implementation of Gauss-Seidel Iteration," (with Lili Ju), Accepted in the Thirteenth IASTED International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Computing and Systems, August 2001. Neither Lili Ju nor Prabhu could attend the conference and the paper was not published in the conference proceedings. "Design of parallel algorithm performance modeling and theoretical analysis of cluster computing," (with Hao Wang and Eugene Takle), submitted to the SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing. "Modeling the evapotranspiration and energy partition of inhomogeneous agroecosystems," (with Hao Wang and Eugene Takle), submitted to the Journal of Applied Meteorology. "On the relationship between drag and pressure coefficients for a porous shelterbelt," (with Hao Wang and Eugene Takle), accepted with modifications in Boundary-Layer Meteorology. "Performance evaluation of climate simulation on a cluster of networked workstations," (with Hao Wang, Eugene Takle, and J. M. Shen), Proceedings of the International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Processing Techniques and Applications, 2000, pp. 2007-2013, CSREA Press. "Evaluation of file access patterns using realistic I/O workloads for a cluster environment," (with Rajat Todi, Yuri Alexeev and John Gustafson), Proceedings of ParCo99 International Conference on Parallel Computing, Netherlands, 1999. "Implementation and performance evaluation for a computation-intensive climate simulation application," (with Hao Wang, Eugene Takle, and Rajat Todi), Proceedings of ParCo99 International Conference on Parallel Computing, Netherlands, 1999. "Programming is Writing: Why Programs must be Carefully Evaluated," Journal of Mathematics and Computer Education, Vol. 32, No. 3, Fall 1998, pp. 284-295 (with Gary Leavens, Albert Baker, Vasant Honavar, and Steve LaValle). "Parallelizing a very high resolution climate model using clusters of workstations with PVM and performance and load balance analyses," (with Hao Wang and Eugene Takle), Proceedings of the International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Processing Techniques and Applications, 1998, pp. 1762-1765, CSREA Press. "Distribution-Independent Hierarchical Algorithms for the N-body problem," Journal of Supercomputing, 12, 1998, pp. 303-323 (with Srinivas Aluru, John Gustafson, and Fatih Sevilgen). "A Framework for Business Transformation," Journal of Microcomputer Applications, Vol. 17, No.1, 1998, pp. 1-7 (with Sree Nilakanta and Ashok Subramanian). "Enterprise Integration: Art or Science?," Summer Conference of the Society for Software Engineering, June 1995. "Truly distribution-independent algorithms for the N-body problem," Supercomputing '94, pp. 420-428 (with Srinivas Aluru and John Gustafson). Expanded version, upon invitation, has been accepted for publication in the Journal of Supercomputing. Computer Architecture and Assembly Language Programming, (with Charles Wright), published by Scott/Jones, Inc., 1994. "A random number generator for parallel computers," Parallel Computing 18, pp. 839-847, 1992 (with Srinivas Aluru and John Gustafson). Also presented as invited lecture at the NATO Advanced Study Institute on Parallel Computing on Distributed Memory Multiprocessors held in Ankara, Turkey, 1991. 
