 Contact Us | Search CS Department of Computer Science Hridesh Rajan Index Research Laboratory for Software Design Projects Publications Students Funding For Prospective Students Teaching COMS 342: Programming Languages (undergraduate) COMS 641: Data Intensive Languages and Systems - Design and Semantics Previous Semesters Msc. Bio & Personal Quick Links Computer Science Iowa State University Got a question? Got a question or comment? Contact me at (515) 294-6168 or hridesh@iastate.edu . Kingland Professor, Computer Science Professor-In-Charge, Data Science Program Ph.D., University of Virginia , 2005 M.S., University of Virginia , 2004 B.Tech., Indian Institute of Technology (BHU) , 2000 Voice: +1-515-294-6168 E-mail: hridesh@iastate.edu Office: 105 Atanasoff Hall Office Hours: Monday 4:00-5:30pm CV: brief , 2 page . Research Interests Software Engineering (SE), programming languages (PL), and compilers Data science, SE & PL for data-intensive systems, and data-driven SE. Concurrency, especially modular reasoning about correctness of concurrent programs. Advanced separation of concerns mechanisms such as events, reactive signals, and aspects and modular reasoning about such mechanisms. News Motivated students with stellar programming skills, join Panini and Boa projects. Send resume . Ganesha finishes Ph.D., Samantha finishes M.S. Hridesh recognized as an ACM distinguished member , exemplary mentor , and Kingland Professor . Boa project receives two new NSF awards 1 , 2 to further develop and leverage the infrastructure. Panini project receives a new NSF award 3 to further develop capsule-oriented programming. About Hridesh Rajan is a full professor of computer science at Iowa State University, where he has been since 2005. Professor Rajan earned his MS and Ph.D. from the University of Virginia in 2004 and 2005 respectively. Prof. Rajan's research interests are in programming languages, software engineering, and data science where he is most known for his design of the Ptolemy programming language that showed how to modularly reason about crosscutting concerns and the Boa programming language and its infrastructure that decreases the barriers to data-driven software engineering. Professor Rajans recent research and educational activities are aimed at decreasing the barrier to entry to data-driven sciences to broaden participation. His work on the Boa project is aimed at invention and refinement of cyberinfrastructures that democratize data-driven science. His work on the Midwest Big Data Summer School is experimenting with broadly accessible data science curricula. Professor Rajan was the founding general chair of the Midwest Big Data Summer School . Professor Rajan is the director of the Laboratory for Software Design at Iowa State University, director of graduate admissions and recruitment for the computer science department, Professor-In-Charge for the Data Science programs at Iowa State University, and chair of the information technology committee for the university. Professor Rajan serves on the steering committee of the Midwest Big Data Hub , a consortium of universities in the Midwest region of the United States focussed on promoting data science activities. Professor Rajan also serves as an associate editor for the IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering . Professor Rajan is a recipient of the National Science Foundation CAREER award in 2009, LAS Award for Early Achievement in Research in 2010, and a Big-12 Fellowship in 2012. He is a distinguished member of ACM, and a member of IEEE, and AAAS. He is also the inaugural holder of the Kingland professorship in the Department of Computer Science. Short bio (for talks, etc.) Hridesh Rajan is the Kingland professor in the Department of Computer Science at Iowa State University. Prof. Rajan's research interests are in programming languages, software engineering, and data science where he is most known for his design of the Ptolemy programming language that showed how to modularly reason about crosscutting concerns and the Boa programming language and its infrastructure that decreases the barriers to data-driven software engineering. He has been recognized by the US National Science Foundation (NSF) with a CAREER award, an Early Achievement in Research Award, a Big-12 Fellowship, the Kingland Professorship, and an exemplary mentor for Junior Faculty award. Prof. Rajan is a distinguished member of the ACM, and serves as an associate editor for the IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering. Select Recent Publications Hamid Bagheri, Usha Muppirala, Andrew J Severin, Hridesh Rajan, "Shared Data Science Infrastructure for Genomics Data" , In submission, 2018. Md Johirul Islam, Anuj Sharma, Hridesh Rajan, "A Cyberinfrastructure for BigData Transportation Engineering" , In submission, 2018. Ganesha Upadhyaya and Hridesh Rajan, "Collective Program Analysis," ICSE'18: The 40th International Conference on Software Engineering, Gothenberg, Sweden, May 27-June 3, 2018. Tianyi Zhang, Ganesha Upadhyaya, Anastasia Reinhardt, Hridesh Rajan and Miryung Kim, "Are Code Examples on an Online Q&A Forum Reliable? A Study of API Misuse on Stack Overflow," ICSE'18: The 40th International Conference on Software Engineering, Gothenberg, Sweden, May 27-June 3, 2018. Samantha Syeda Khairunnesa, Hoan Anh Nguyen, Tien N. Nguyen, and Hridesh Rajan, " Exploiting Implicit Beliefs to Resolve Sparse Usage Problem in Usage-based Specification Mining ," OOPSLA17: The ACM SIGPLAN conference on Object-Oriented Programming, Systems, Languages, and Applications, October, 2017. Hridesh Rajan, "Bridging the Digital Divide in Data Science" , SPLASH-I: The ACM SIGPLAN conference on Systems, Programming, Languages and Applications: Software for Humanity (SPLASH), October, 2017. Ganesha Upadhyaya and Hridesh Rajan, " On Accelerating Ultra-Large-Scale Mining ," ICSE'17: The 39th International Conference on Software Engineering: NIER Track, Buenos Aires, Argentina, May 2017. Yuheng Long, Yu David Liu, and Hridesh Rajan, " First-Class Effect Reflection for Effect-Guided Programming ," OOPSLA'16: The ACM SIGPLAN conference on Systems, Programming, Languages and Applications: Software for Humanity (SPLASH), Amsterdam, the Netherlands, October 2016. Yuheng Long, Yu David Liu, and Hridesh Rajan, " Intensional Effect Polymorphism ," ECOOP'15: The 29th European Conference on Object-oriented Programming, July 2015. Hridesh Rajan, " Capsule-oriented Programming ," ICSE15: The 37th International Conference on Software Engineering: NIER Track, May 2015. Hridesh Rajan, Tien N. Nguyen, Gary T. Leavens, and Robert Dyer, " Inferring Behavioral Specifications from Large-scale Repositories by Leveraging Collective Intelligence ," ICSE15: The 37th International Conference on Software Engineering: NIER Track, May 2015. Ganesha Upadhyaya and Hridesh Rajan, " Effectively Mapping Linguistic Abstractions for Message-passing Concurrency to Threads on the Java Virtual Machine ," OOPSLA15: The ACM SIGPLAN conference on Systems, Programming, Languages and Applications: Software for Humanity (SPLASH), October 2015. Robert Dyer, Hoan Anh Nguyen, Hridesh Rajan, and Tien N. Nguyen, " Boa: Ultra-Large-Scale Software Repository and Source-Code Mining ," ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., December 2015. more... Research Projects My recent research has focussed on data science and concurrency. My overarching research program is aimed at improving programmer productivity, and correctness of software systems that they produce. In particular, I am interested in designing new programming abstractions that abstract away error-prone concerns, improve modularity, and improve modular reasoning. By abstracting away error-prone concerns, and having compilers and programming frameworks automatically provide adequate implementation of such concerns, my research aspires to reduce potential for errors in software, and improve productivity. By improving modularity and modular reasoning, my research strives for improved scalability in both manual and automatic reasoning as well as verification processes. My main research projects are: Boa , a domain-specific language and its infrastructure whose goal is to significantly ease the experimental cost of mining ultra-large-scale open source repositories. Boa is a research infrastructure that consists of a domain-specific language, its compiler and data updating tools, terabytes (and growing) of raw data from open source repositories that contains hundreds of thousands of open source projects, a backend based on map-reduce to effectively analyze this dataset, a compute cluster, and a web-based frontend for writing analysis programs. Boa project has been supported in part by the following grants. US National Science Foundation, CI-EN: Boa: Enhancing Infrastructure for Studying Software and its Evolution at a Large Scale. PI: Hridesh Rajan and Co-I: Tien Nguyen, Robert Dyer (2015-2018), Total award amount: $1,559,806, Links: ISU , and BGSU . US National Science Foundation, EAGER: Boa: A Community Research Infrastructure for Mining Software Repositories . PI: Hridesh Rajan and Co-I: Tien Nguyen (2013-2015). Following research papers document progress on this project: [ ICSE'18 (1) ], [ ICSE'18 (2) ], [ ICSE'17 (NIER) ], [ MSR'17 ], [ ICSE'14 ], [ ICSE'13 ], [ ASE'13 ], [ GPCE'13 ] SpecGuru project that is developing techniques for inferring behavioral specifications that rely on both program analysis and data mining of data from open source repositories. SpecGuru project has been supported in part by the following grants. US National Science Foundation, SHF: Large:Collaborative Research: Inferring Software Specifications from Open Source Repositories by Leveraging Data and Collective Community Expertise. PI: Hridesh Rajan and Co-I: Robert Dyer, Tien Nguyen, Gary T. Leavens, and Vasant Honavar (2015-2018), Links: ISU , BGSU , UCF , and PSU . Following research papers document progress on this project: [ OOPSLA'17 ], [ ICSE'17 (NIER) ], [ ICSE'15 (NIER) ], [ FSE'14 ], Panini project that is developing the capsule-oriented programming model . Capsule-oriented programming model is aimed at making concurrent software development easier by providing two properties: (1) given a module it ought to be possible to statically, and modularly identify all points in its code where other modules might interfere (interference points), and (2) given a module and the interfaces of other modules, that the subject module interacts with, it ought to be possible to statically and modularly construct an upper bound on the behavior of all potentially interferring tasks at each interference point. We show that if a programming model has these two properties, then it is possible to modularly reason about concurrent programs in that model. By the first property, humans and tools can identify points where interference from other concurrent tasks must be considered. By the second property, the computed upper bound can be used for reasoning instead of needing the implementation of interferring modules. Compared to alternatives, where reasoning either becomes a global process or entails a global step, modular reasoning afforded by this programming model makes both manual and automated reasoning about concurrent software more scalable. Panini project has been supported in part by the following grants. US National Science Foundation, SHF:Small: Capsule-oriented Programming . PI: Hridesh Rajan (2014-2018), Award amount: $450,098. US National Science Foundation, CAREER:On Mutualism of Modularity and Concurrency Goals . PI: Hridesh Rajan (2009-2015), Award amount: $565,935. US National Science Foundation, SHF:Small:Phase-Based Tuning for Better Utilization of Performance-Asymmetric Multicores . PI: Hridesh Rajan (2011-2015), Award amount: $416,000. Following research papers document progress on this project: [ OOPSLA'15 ], [ ICSE'15 (NIER) ], [ Modularity'15 ], [ ECOOP'15 ], [ AGERE'14 ], [ Onward!'10 ], [ GPCE'10 ], [ FoSER'10 ] We have created two software systems that support this programming model so far: an extension of Java (and the reference compiler javac) that we call PaniniJ , and an annotation-based framework that uses annotation processing facilities, instead of syntax extensions, that we call @PaniniJ . Ptolemy , an event-based language whose goal is to enable more modular reasoning about advanced separation of concerns mechanisms such as implicit invocation and aspects. Ptolemy provides quantified-typed events that act as an interface between modules. A key benefit of quantified-typed events is that they allow programmers to write new kinds of contracts that we call translucid contracts , which enables modular reasoning about modules that announce events and those that listen to events. Ptolemy project has been supported in part by the following grant. US National Science Foundation, SHF:Small:Balancing Expressiveness and Modular Reasoning for Aspect-oriented Programming . PI: Hridesh Rajan (2010 - 2013). Following research papers document progress on this project: [ Modularity'15 ], [ Modularity'13 ], [ TAOSD'13 ], [ AOSD'12 ], [ FOAL'12 ], [ AOSD'11 ], [ FOAL'10 ], [ TOSEM'09 ], [ ECOOP'08 ], [ IEEE Software'06 ], [ ESEC/FSE'05 ] more... Teaching Spring 2018: COMS 342 , a course on principles of programming languages Fall 2016: COMS 362, a course on object-oriented analysis and design Spring 2016: COMS 641 , a course on design and semantics of data intensive languages and systems Major Awards and Honors 2009 Early CAREER Award, US National Science Foundation 2010 Early Achievement in Research Award, College of Liberal Arts & Science , Iowa State University 2012 Big-12 Fellowship 2014 ACM Senior Member 2016-17 Emerging Leaders Academy. See news here . 2016 Kingland Professorship. See news here . 2016-17 Exemplary Mentor of Junior Faculty, Iowa State University. See news here . 2017 ACM Distinguished Member. See news here . Former Graduate Students Ganesha Upadhyaya (PhD Fall'17, MS Spring'15), Huawei R&D Mehdi Bagherzadeh (PhD Summer'16, MS Fall'10), Assistant Professor at Oakland University Yuheng Long (PhD Spring'16, MS Spring'10), Google Robert Dyer (PhD Fall'13, MS Fall'08), Assistant Professor at Bowling Green State University Tyler Sondag (PhD Fall'11, MS Fall'09), Intel R&D Samantha Khairunnessa (MS Fall'17), ISU Ph.D. Program Ramanathan Ramu (MS Fall'17), Microsoft Nitin M. Tiwari (MS Spring'17), SAP Sean L. Mooney (MS Summer'15), SourceAllies Harish Narayanappa (MS Spring'10), eBay Jaikishan Jalan (MS Fall'09), Squad Youssef W. Hanna (MS Fall'08), Google Rakesh Setty (MS Fall'08), eBay Mahantesh Hosamani (MS Fall'07), Ericsson Recent Professional Services Editorships: Associate Editor, IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering Associate Editor, ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes Organizing Committee: General Co-chair, 2018 Midwest Big Data Summer School (also in 2017 , and 2016 ) Workshops on Virtual Machines and Intermediate Languages ( VMIL 2007-2018 ): Founder and Co-organizer Doctoral Symposium Chair, ESEC/FSE 2018 - the ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering Doctoral Symposium Chair, SPLASH/OOPSLA 2012 - the international Conference on Systems, Programming, Languages and Applications: Software for Humanity 8th International Conference on Aspect-Oriented Software Development ( AOSD 2009 ): Student Volunteer Co-chair Program Committee: PC or ERC Member, MODULARITY: the International Conference on Modularity (in 2016 , 2015 , 2014 , 2013 , 2011 , 2010 , and 2009 ) PC Member, GPCE - the International Conference on Generative Programming Concepts & Experiences (in 2015 , 2014 , and 2010 .) PC Member, SPLASH/OOPSLA 2013 - the international Conference on Systems, Programming, Languages and Applications: Software for Humanity ERC Member, SPLASH/OOPSLA 2012 - the international Conference on Systems, Programming, Languages and Applications: Software for Humanity PC Chair, FOAL 2011 - the Foundations of Aspect-oriented Languages workshop PC Member, ICSE 2010 - the 32nd International Conference on Software Engineering (research demonstrations track) PC Member, Onward! 2010 - the 2010 Onward! Conference on the new ideas, new paradigms track at OOPSLA 2010 PC Member, OOPSLA 2009 - the ACM Conference on Object-Oriented Programming Systems, Languages, and Applications PC Member, ACP4IS 2008 , 2009 , and 2010 - the Workshop on Aspects, Components, and Patterns for Infrastructure Software PC Member, FOAL 2006 , 2008 , 2010 , 2012 , 2014 , 2015 - the Foundations of Aspect-Oriented Languages workshop Copyright 2019 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. 
