 Russ Miller UB Distinguished Professor Dept of Computer Science & Engineering State University of New York at Buffalo HomePage Home Biography Photos/Videos Media Coverage Research Results Publications Presentations SnB Grids CI Lab CCR Escher's Enigma Teaching Personal Info Contact Info Appointments . Russ Miller maintains appointments as Distinguished Professor of Computer Science and Engineering , as well as Adjunct Distinguished Professor of both Electrical Engineering and Structural Biology, at SUNY-Buffalo. A Fellow of the IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers) and member of the European Academy of Sciences, Miller's scientific publications number approximately 200, including scientific peer-reviewed papers, chapters, and abstracts of presentations at national or international conferences. Research . Dr. Miller's research includes parallel algorithms, computational crystallography (molecular structure determination), cyberinfrastructure, computational geometry, and image analysis. Parallel Computing. Dr. Miller's research has led to revolutionary advances in the area of massively parallel computing. His group, including colleagues such as Prof. Quentin F. Stout (U. Mich), developed a cadre of efficient and optimal computational paradigms, solution strategies, and data movement operations for a wide variety of massively parallel computational models. They have has also applied their toolbox of techniques to create efficient and optimal algorithms to solve fundamental problems in areas including, but not limited to, computational geometry, image analysis, graph theory, data movement operations, and NP-hard problems. Molecular Structure Determination. Miller's research group, including esteemed colleagues at the Hauptman-Woodward Medical Research Institute, developed, designed, and deployed the Shake-and-Bake method of molecular structure determination. This ground breaking work relied of the design and implementation of efficient dual-space optimization algorithms for commercially availabile high-end computing systems. The Shake-and-Bake algorithm dramatically improved a key step in rational drug design. The importance of this work was recognized by its inclusion in the poster "The Top Ten Algorithms of the Century ," published in Computing in Science & Engineering, produced in cooperation with the IEEE and The Computer Museum History Center. Cyberinfrastructure. Dr. Miller's research group made significant advances in grid deployment, grid monitoring, predictive scheduling, dynamic resource allocation, and grid-based monitoring tools, to name a few. Deployments included experimental grids at UB, in Western New York, in New York State, and as a member of numerous national and international grids. Additional Information. For more information on Dr. Miller's research, please following this link . Center for Computational Research (CCR) . Dr. Miller founded CCR, where he served as Founding Director from 1998-2006. During his tenure, CCR was continuously ranked as one of the leading supercomputing centers worldwide, supporting significant computing power and data storage, as well as a wide variety of high-end visualization devices. On an annual basis, CCR supported hundreds of faculty-led projects, as well as projects from a variety of local and national colleges, universities, non-profit organizations, government agencies, and the private sector companies. Funding . Including peer-reviewed funds, contracts, appropriations, and funds that CCR enabled during his tenure as Director, Dr. Miller was instrumental in bringing nearly $500,000,000 to Western New York. Publications . A list of Dr. Miller's publications is available . Of note, Russ Miller currently has two books in print: Parallel Algorithms for Regular Architectures (joint with Quentin F. Stout) and Algorithms Sequential and Parallel: A Unified Approach (joint with Larry Boxer). Philosophy and Music . Dr. Miller is a member of Escher's Enigma (with Brian Miller), a project focused on creating and publishing original pop and rock songs that explore the relationship between past and present, fate, fantasy, and family. Review the October, 2013 EP " From Me to There ," the March, 2014 EP " Piece of Mind ," the February, 2015 CD " For a Moment ", and the August, 2016 CD " Interpretations, Vol. 1 on CD Baby , Amazon , and iTunes . Videos are available. A subset of songs are available on SoundCloud and ReverbNation . More information is available . Reviews of the CDs are available at www.eschersenigma.com . 
