 Skip to main content ISU Index Menu iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z ISU Quick Links Menu Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Outlook More Sign Ons... Department of Computer Science Computational Media Lab Main menu Main Menu People Expertise Projects News Events Publications Welcome to the Computational Media Lab Welcome to our website. We are a group of people who are interested in computational methods for learning frombig multimedia data and for high performance retrieval of big multimedia data.Our current data sources are medical video, social network data, and government data. Want to know more? See our project pages or contact us. Read more about Projects EMIS: Endoscopic Multimedia Information System SRI: Building Research Community in Computational Communication & Journalism and Political Informatics Automated collection and coding of online campaign ads All Projects Recent News Computational Communication course led to AAA Gold Medal March 10, 2016 Alexander Maxwell, Austin Evans and Melissa Garrettwon a Gold prize for their Near Field interactive poster for the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences from th SRI Social Informatics Team hosting Dr. Margaret Roberts March 10, 2016 The SRI Social Informatics team hosted Dr. Roberts onMarch 4, 2016 at Iowa State University. Tavanapong invited to attend the DigSys technical workshop at Simula Research Laboratory, Oslo, Norway January 23, 2016 Tavanapong was invited to attend the DigSys workshop atSimula Research Laboratory, Oslo, Norway, to be held on January 21, 2016. All News Recent Publications Active Similarity Learning for Image Classification under Class Imbalance Teaching Ad Tech: Assessing Collaborative Teaching in an Advertising, Computer Science, and Design Course Multimedia and Medicine: Teammates for Better Disease Detection and Survival Non-informative Frame Classification in Colonoscopy Videos using CNNs. In Proc. of Intl Conf. on ICBSP 2018, Italy, October 2018. Online Video Ad Measurement for Political Science Research Department of Computer Science 226 Atanasoff Hall Ames IA 50011 csdept@iastate.edu (515) 294-4377 phone Site Index Site map Copyright 2019 Iowa State University of Science and Technology. All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility 
