 Dr. Xu (Judy) Zhu SMIEEE, MIET Reader Department of Electrical Engineering and Electronics The University of Liverpool Liverpool, L69 3GJ UK Tel: +44 151 794 4571 Fax: +44 151 794 4540 Email: xuzhu@liverpool.ac.uk Biography Dr. Xu Zhu received the BEng degree (with first class honours ) from Huazhong University of Science and Technology , Wuhan, China, where she graduated in 1999 and was ranked the first in the Department of Electronics and Information Engineering . She received the PhD degree in Electrical and Electronic Engineering in 2003, from The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology , under the supervision of Prof. Ross D. Murch . Since May 2003, she has been with the Department of Electrical Engineering and Electronics , The University of Liverpool , Liverpool, UK, where she is currently a Reader and the Director or Learning and Teaching. Dr. Zhu has over 130 peer reviewed publications in communications and signal processing. Dr. Zhu is a Senior Member of IEEE and a member of IET. She is an Editor for the IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, and served as a Guest Editor for the February 2013 Special Issue in Computer Science and Information Systems . She has been involved in organising a number of conferences and workshops, such as the IEEE ICC 2016 as a symposium chair, and the ICArn 2008 as a vice chair. She has served as session chair or technical program committee member for various international conferences, such as IEEE ICC 2013. Dr. Zhu has received research grants of worth over 1.2 M since 2006 (including 800k as Principal Investigator), from various funding bodies such as EPSRC, KTP and EU. She has graduated 9 PhD students and 2 MPhil students as the first supervisor, and has supervised 8 post-doc researchers successfully. Currently she is leading a group of 9 research students. Research Interests Wireless Communications Smart / MIMO Antenna Systems Equalization Cooperative Communications Cognitive Radio Networks Broadband OFDM Techniques Cross-layer Optimization Ultra-wideband Radio Technology Space- T ime Processing Multi- U ser Communications Smart Grid Communications Green Communications More Publications on Google Scholar CV (in .pdf) PhD Studentships Direction to my office 
