 Miguel Lpez-Bentez PERSONAL WEBSITE Home Education Teaching Research Services Misc About me Positions Contact Welcome to my personal website! Direct links to the main pages: Research interests and research projects . List of publications and Ph.D. Thesis . Research awards and academic awards . LinkedIn profile . Google Scholar profile . Contact information . Last update on 14 September 2018. Miguel Lpez-Bentez Lecturer (Assistant Professor) Dept. Electrical Eng. & Electronics University of Liverpool, UK PhD / post-doc: I am always looking for enthusiastic and self-motivated PhD students and postdoctoral researchers. If you are interested in any of my research topics or related/complimentary areas, you are welcome to contact me (please send a copy of your CV, including publications (if applicable), academic transcripts and statement of your research interests). If your home country funds PhD or post-doc grants to conduct your research abroad, support could be provided to prepare the application. About me I have been a Lecturer (Assistant Professor) in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Electronics ( EEE ) of the University of Liverpool ( UoL ), United Kingdom since 2013. Prior to this, I was a Research Fellow in the Centre for Communication Systems Research, currently Institute for Communication Systems ( ICS ) of the University of Surrey ( UNIS ), Guildford, United Kingdom from 2011 to 2013. I received B.Sc. and M.Sc. degrees in Telecommunications Engineering (both with First-Class Honours) from Miguel Hernndez University ( UMH ), Elche, Spain in 2003 and 2006, respectively, and a Ph.D. degree in Telecommunications Engineering (2011 Outstanding Ph.D. Thesis Award) from the Department of Signal Theory and Communications ( TSC ) of the Technical University of Catalonia ( UPC ), Barcelona, Spain in 2011. My research interests embrace the field of wireless communications and networking, with special emphasis on several theoretical and experimental aspects of cellular mobile communication technologies, heterogeneous radio access networks and dynamic spectrum access in cognitive radio systems. I am/have been the principal investigator of research projects funded by EPSRC, the British Council and the Royal Society, and have been involved in the European-funded projects AROMA , NEWCOM++ , FARAMIR , QoSMOS and CoRaSat , I am co-author of three book chapters and have published over 70 papers in refereed journals and recognised conferences. I am Associate Editor of IEEE Access , IET Communications and Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing . I have been a member of the Organising Committee for the IEEE WCNC International Workshop on Smart Spectrum (IWSS 2015-18). I have also been TPC for several IEEE conferences (GLOBECOM, ICC, WCNC, VTC) as well as frequent reviewer for IEEE journals and conferences. After graduation, I was the recipient of the University Education National Awards in the area of Telecommunications Engineering for my B.Sc. and M.Sc. degrees, a distinction from the Spanish Ministry of Education and Science to the best national academic records. I also was awarded other prizes and distinctions from the Spanish Professional Institution of Telecommunications Engineers, among others. My M.Sc. thesis was awarded the national research prize from the France Telecom foundation (today Orange foundation ) in the context of the 5th Archimedes University Competition , the scientist contest for young researchers in Spain organised by the Spanish Ministry of Education and Science (over 100 applications). I was awarded a full scholarship ( FPU ) for my Ph.D. studies from the Spanish Ministry of Education and Science, being ranked 1st in Electronic Technology and Communications. My Ph.D. thesis received the 2011 Outstanding Ph.D. Thesis Award of the Department of Signal Theory and Communications ( TSC ) of the Technical University of Catalonia ( UPC ). My work was shortlisted as a finalist for the IET Innovation Awards 2012 in the category of Telecommunications (over 400 applications). I received the IEICE Communications Society Best Tutorial Paper Award 2014, the IEEE Access Reviewer of the Month Award (July 2015) and the distinction of Exemplary reviewer of IEEE Wireless Communications Letters 2017. I am a Senior Member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ( IEEE ), IEEE Communications Society ( ComSoc ) and IEEE Vehicular Technology Society ( VTS ), and a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy ( HEA ). Some random facts: I am an amateur self-taught classical pianist. My favourite composers are Chopin, Liszt and Rachmaninoff (but I play mostly Chopin). I have a YouTube channel with some of my piano performances. A few of my piano compositions are published in IMSLP . I enjoy travelling to new places. Here are some pics of places I have visited . I became a self-taught computer programmer at the age of 11 (in QBasic!). My Erds number is 4. Positions Sep. 2013 - Present: Lecturer (Assistant Professor) . Department of Electrical Engineering and Electronics ( EEE ). School of Electrical Engineering, Electronics and Computer Science ( EEECS ). University of Liverpool ( UoL ). Liverpool, Merseyside, United Kingdom. Aug. 2011 - Aug 2013: Research Fellow . Centre for Communication Systems Research (currently ICS ). Department of Electronic Engineering ( EE ). Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences ( FEPS ). University of Surrey ( UNIS ). Guildford, Surrey, United Kingdom. Sep. 2006 - Jul. 2011: Research and Teaching Assistant . Mobile Communication Research Group ( GRCM ). Department of Signal Theory and Communications ( TSC ). ETSETB Telecommunications Engineering School. Technical University of Catalonia ( UPC ). Barcelona, Spain. Feb. 2003 - Jul. 2006: Research Assistant . Ubiquituous Wireless Communications Research ( Uwicore ) laboratory. Signal Theory and Communications Division ( TSC ). Department of Communications Engineering ( DIC ). Miguel Hernndez University ( UMH ). Elche, Alicante, Spain. Contact Address: Room 616, Building 235 Department of Electrical Engineering and Electronics University of Liverpool Brownlow Hill Liverpool, Merseyside, L69 3GJ United Kingdom Phone: +44 (0)151 794 4562 Fax: +44 (0)151 794 4540 E-mail: escribirEnlaceCorreoUoL() M.Lopez-Benitez@liverpool.ac.uk Website: http://www.lopezbenitez.es Maps: Campus map (printable PDF). Find me using Google maps: View the Department of Electrical Engineering and Electronics in a larger map Copyright Miguel Lpez-Bentez. All Rights Reserved. 
