OSU Home Page | CS Home Page | DreamSpark Program home about contact OFFICE HOURS Spring 2019 232 MSCS Tuesday & Thursday Noon - 1:30 PM and by appointment latest news Feb 11, 2019 Today, President Trump signed into law the American AI Initiative . This should result in more funding for AI research. It will be interesting to see where this goes. Jan 25, 2019 Google's DeepMind has beat human players of Blizzard's StarCraft II with a record of 10-1 . This machine learning milestone was the next significant step after beating humans at the game of GO. Jan 6, 2019 NVIDIA announced their latest, the 20xx RTX series, at CES. Be ready to pay more for the high-end, real-time raytracing capabilities. additional links Botprize Competition Starcraft AI Competition Pogamut API Broodwar API Apple iOS Dev Center Ray Wenderlich's iOS Tutorials Sykes' 11 Rules Current research HTC AR/VR Headset My research efforts include working toward unique and interesting applications of augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR) to safety workers and first responders, industrial and manufacturing concerns, digital entertainment, and the quality of life for people in general. Unreal Tournament 2004: Steel Halo Mod In another direction, I am working to improve the believability and playing ability of NPCs (Non-Player Characters) in first-person shooter video games. With the assistance of graduate students, I am evaluating various machine learning techniques that will permit the NPCs to learn by trial-and-error or by observation. A paper is in the works that describes the application of evolutionary algorithms to create NPCs for the Capture the Flag mode of Unreal Tournament 2004. Interested in this research? Stop by and visit me! Video Game Development Course StarCraft This semester, I again am teaching the video game development course, CS 4173. This course is offered via distance learning so that OSU-Tulsa students will be able to participate from there rather than being required to travel to the OSU-Stillwater campus. In the course, we will look at many aspects of video game development, including such topics as game engines, game mechanics, 2D vs 3D, physics of game objects, AI and video games, etc. We will use current tools, including Unity 3D, to develop 2D and 3D games. Motion capture for interactive digital entertainment Gollum The CS Department operates a motion capture facility in the lab I use. It is comprised of an 8-camera Vicon system attached to an Intel Xeon, Windows-based computer with AutoDesk Maya and MotionBuilder software to create 3D models and manipulate them using the data captured using the Vicon system. This provides an excellent opportunity for students to experiment with the creation of realistic character animations for video games and films. This is the same technology Peter Jackson used to bring the character Gollum to life in his Lord of the Rings films. "The idea that Bill Gates has appeared like a knight in shining armour to lead all customers out of the mire of technological chaos neatly ignores the fact tht it was he who, by peddling second-rate technology, led them into it in the first place" Douglas Adams Copyright  2017 Blayne E. Mayfield | Please enable JavaScript to contact me by email. | XHTML 1.1 | CSS | Design by dcarter
