CS Home A&S Home Quicklinks Weather Campus Map Academic Calendar OSU Calendar Directory Computer Science Faculty Research Students Tech Support Industry Newsletter Apply Now! Learn about being an OSU Cowboy! Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Dr. Satyam Priyadarshy Chief Data Scientist Halliburton Landmark Dr. Satyam Priyadarshy is a pioneer in the fields of data science, big data, analytics, and emerging technologies. He is currently chief data scientist at Halliburton's Landmark PSL, leading expansion of integrated workflow capabilities and big data and data science initiatives. He is one of the most sought out keynote speaker in areas of Big Data, Data Science, IoT, Cybersecurity, Mobility, and emerging technologies. He is an SPE Member, and also leads the Real-time modeling subcommittee in the Drilling Systems Automation interest group. He interviews have appeared in Petroleum Review, Oil Review Middle East, Oil Gas Technology, Chemical and Engineering News, and other publications. Dr. Priyadarshy has appeared as speaker at 100+ international conferences, and has written, co-authored, presented and published numerous research papers in peer-reviewed journals and magazines. He has held various leadership positions in AOL, Network Solutions, Acxiom Corporation prior to joining Halliburton. He was recently named to The Financial Times' list of potential board candidates with emerging technology and analytics expertise. Dr. Priyadarshy is an adjunct faculty at Georgetown University. He is currently senior fellow at the International Cyber Security Center at George Mason University. He is advisory board member at multiple organizations including Big Data Summit, Virginia Tech's MBA Board, etc. He is President of DC Chapter of TiE (TiE is non-profit- world's largest entrepreneurial network organization). He is also member of IEEE, ACS, ACM. Dr. Priyadarshy holds a Ph.D. from Indian Institute of Technology in Bombay, and an MBA from Virginia Tech. Webmail Passwords Facilities Graduate Secretary Conferences OnTheHub Documents History Contact Us Accessibility IT Policies Legal and Trademarks Webmaster  2019 Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved.
