 Jezekiel Ben-Arie Professor Emeritus+1-312.996.2648 benarie@uic.edu Contact Information:UICDept. of Electrical & Computer Engineering,1020 Sciences and Engineering Offices (SEO),851 South Morgan St.(M/C 154)Chicago, IL 60607.Office:1101 SEOLaboratory Website:Machine Vision LabQualificationsPh.D. Electrical Engineering Israel Institute of Technology, 1986M.Sc. Electrical Engineering Israel Institute of Techology, 1971B.Sc. Electrical Engineering Israel Institute of Technology, 1967Professional AchievementsProf. Ben-Arie has performed wide scholarly activities in the areas of computer vision, object and human motion recognition, image processing, neural networks and human audition. These activities resulted in more than 130 scientific publications. Prof. Ben-Arie has successfully completed more than 17 research projects funded by NSF, DARPA, ARO, ONR, Whitaker Foundations and others. For his scholarly work, he received the University of Illinois Scholar award for 2002-2005 (this is the highest research award in University of Illinois).In his scientific work, he had many discoveries that resulted in broader impact on the area of image analysis. Dr. Ben-Arie discovered the widely cited probabilistic peaking effects of viewed angles and distances, which is the basis of the area of probabilistic image understanding. He also developed the Affine Invariant Spectral Signatures (AISS) and the Volumetric Frequency Representation (VFR). The AISS and the VFR provide novel and efficient means for object and face recognition and shape matching.Prof. Ben-Arie performed research and service to the community also in the area of Image Processing where he served as an Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Image Processing. In this area, he developed the non-orthogonal EXpansion Matching method (EXM), which is very useful in the recognition of highly occluded objects and in motion video compression.Prof. Ben-Arie also specializes in the area of human motion and video databases. In this area he recently developed a breakthrough method for recognition of human activities from video based on Indexing and Sequencing (RISq). Only few sparse samples of the video are necessary for almost 100% recognition. The method is a general vector sequence recognition and can be used for other applications such as speech recognition. It is currently patent pending.Technical Program Committee: IEEE-IP IEEE International Conference on Image Processing, Genova, Italy, Sept. 2005.Technical Program Committee: IEEE-IP IEEE International Conference on Image Processing, Singapore, Oct. 2004.Research Award of the College of Engineering at UIC for 2003.Technical Program Committee: IEEE-IP IEEE International Conference on Image Processing, Barcelona, Spain, Oct. 2003.Received the University of Illinois Scholar award for 2002 (highest university award of $30,000).Advisor of Dr. Zhiqian Wang who received the UIC 2000 PhD Dissertation award.Nominated as an Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Image Processing for 2000-2002.Organizing Committee of the Information and Data Management (IDM 2000) Workshop, (Sponsored by the NSF) Chicago, IL, March 2000.Steering Committee of the Information and Data Management (IDM 2000) Workshop, (Sponsored by the NSF) Chicago, IL, March 2000.International Program Committee: The second International ICSC Congress on Computational Intelligence: Methods & Applications (CIMA 2001), United Kingdom, June 2001.Technical Program Committee: IEEE-IP IEEE International Conf. on Image Processing, Kobe Japan, Oct. 1999.Session Chair in IEEE CVPR IEEE International Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Fort Collins, Co, June 1999.Technical Program Committee: IEEE-CVPR IEEE International Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Santa Barbara, CA, June 1998.Technical Program Committee: ICPR 13-th International Conf. on Pattern Recognition, Vienna, Austria, Aug. 1996.Technical Program Committee: Third IEEE Conf. on Image Processing, Lausanne, Switzerland, Sept. 1996.Technical Program Committee: First IEEE Conf. on Image Processing, Austin, Texas, Oct. 1994.Selected to present his research in the annual meeting of the board of trustees of Illinois Institute of Technology.Nominated as one of the two candidates from the Illinois Institute of Technology for the NSF Presidential Faculty Fellow (PFF) award for the year 1993.Outstanding Staff Member Departmental Award The Technion Israel Institute of Technology.Fellowship for M.Sc.EE Research The Technion, Israel Institute of Technology.Four Year Outstanding Student Scholarship from The Technion Foundation -The Technion, Israel Institute of Technology.Research InterestsWireless sensor networksNetwork securityComputer networkingCommunications and signal processingComputer simulation modelsBiometric systemsOptimal control in robotics and Interdisciplinary Product Development
