 Sargur N. Srihari (Hari) Biography Sargur Srihari is a computer scientist whose work is on automated systems for pattern recognition and machine learning. The principal impact of his work has been on statistical methods, on the analysis and recognition of handwriting and in computational methods for forensic impression evidence. Sargur Srihari is currently a SUNY Distinguished Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University at Buffalo, The State University of New York where he also holds adjunct professorships in the Department of Biostatistics and in the Department of Electrical Engineering. He held the Rukmini Gopalakrishnachar chair professorship at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore in 2018. He has also been a visiting professor at the University of Bari, Italy. At Buffalo he teaches a trilogy of courses in machine learning , probabilistic graphical models and deep learning . With support from the United States Postal Service for over 20 years, he founded CEDAR, the Center of Excellence for Document Analysis and Recognition , in 1991, which had a major impact. His research led to: (i) the first large-scale handwritten address interpretation systems in the world (deployed by the IRS and USPS), (ii) widespread acceptance of handwritten digit recognition as the fruit-fly of machine learning, (iii) post-Daubert court acceptance of handwriting testimony based on handwriting individuality asessment , (iv) a software system in use by forensic document examiners worldwide (v) statistical characterization of uncertainty in impression evidence , and (vi) first characterization of document image understanding as a sub-field of artificial intelligence. Srihari has served on the National Academy of Sciences Committee on Identifying the Needs of the Forensic Science Community (2007-08), the National Library of Medicine Board of Scientific Counselors (2001-07), and two National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) working groups: Expert Working Group on Human Factors in Latent Print Analysis (2008-10), and Expert Working Group on Human Factors in Handwriting Examination (2015-17). He is presently a member of the Technical Advisory Group of the Houston Forensic Science Center . He has chaired committees of the International Association for Pattern Recognition . Srihari's honors include: Outstanding Acheivements Award of IAPR/ICDAR in Beijing China in 2011, Distinguished alumnus of the Ohio State University College of Engineering in 1999. Fellow of the International Association for Pattern Recognition in 1996, Life Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) in 1995, and Fellow of the Institute of Electronics and Telecommunications Engineers (IETE, India) in 1992. He received an "Excellence in Graduate Mentoring" award from the University at Buffalo in 2018. Srihari is an author of over 350 research papers and seven United States patents with over 18,000 citations. He has edited five books , and served as principal advisor to 40 doctoral students . He also played a leading role in establishing the International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition , the International Conference on Frontiers in Handwriting Recogntion , and the International Workshop on Computational Forensics . Srihari received a B.Sc. in Physics and Mathematics from the Bangalore University (National College) in 1967, a B.E. in Electrical Communication Engineering from the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore in 1970, and a Ph.D. in Computer and Information Science from the Ohio State University, Columbus in 1976 for a dissertation on kernel-based and nearest-neighbor pattern classifiers. Related Links Papers Introduction to Machine Learning Course (2018) Deep Learning Course (2018) Data Mining Course (2010) Pattern Recognition Course (2007) Curriculum Vitae html pdf Biography pdf doc Probabilistic Graphical Models Course (2018) Sargur village, India Technical Talks Postal Research Committees Past Graduate Students Books , Patents , SNS-Dissertation Media Speeches (General) UB Convocation, 1997 For further information: Email: Phone: (716) 645-6162 
