 Invenst Special Interest Group FinTech Applications The Wizards of Odds The Wizards of Odds is an Invenst special interest group focused on fin tech applications and learning. Want to know more about automated trading? Want an opportunity to learn some fundamentals of finance to help you construct and comprehend applications related to finance? This may be the perfect group for you! The SIG meets weekly, guided by two mentors with a passion for both finance and technology. To get on the mailing list, please sign up here. Syllabus For a look at what we'll be talking about in WOO this semester, take a look at our syllabus ! Meeting Times The Wizards of Odds meets every Thursday from 6:30 - 8:00 PM in Davis 310. On weeks where there is not a regular Invenst club meeting, there will be a special lab session from 5:30 - 6:30 (bring your laptop). There will be food at the lab sessions, so bring your appetite as well! Mentors Charles S. Tirone, M.D. Dr. Tirone is currently an adjunct member of the CSE Faculty. He obtained his BA from UB in 1959 and his MD from UB in 1963. He was a Captain in the US Army from 1966-1968 with the 101 st Airborne Div. and served in Vietnam. He practiced Radiology from 1969 to the present in various hospitals and groups, all in WNY. He founded 8 various businesses and was involved in 9 others. He was a Registered Investment Advisor from 1990 - 1995. He was a Graduate of the Core Program, Center for Entrepreneurial Leadership and an Assistant to the Executive Director for 2 years. He funded a Scholarship at UB in the History Department in his and his wifes name. He is a member of the UB Athletic Hall of Fame as a member of the 1958 Lambert Cup Championship Football Team. He is a recipient of the Chancellor Norton Award in 2009 as a member of the 1958 UB Football Team. His interests and hobbies are brainstorming, business, entrepreneurship, stock market/investments, casino table games, Sudoku, reading mysteries, collecting paraprosdokians, jokes and clever sayings. Dr. Zhen Liu Dr. Zhen Liu is currently an adjunct instructor at the Economics Department of UB. He received his Ph.D. in Economics in 2007 at SUNY at Stony Brook. Since then he has taught Economics and Finance courses at Ohio Northern University and then at UB. His specialized fields include Behavioral Finance, Applied Game Theory, and Industrial Organization. He published research papers in The B.E. Journal of Theoretical Economics and The Journal of Mathematical Economics. In 2016, he began to learn programming in Python and building models for algorithmic trading and financial data analysis. He strongly believes that individual investors can use technology to make better financial decisions. 
