 Perry Kivolowitz Chair, Computer Science Department; Professor of Practicein Computer Science Straz Center 90 pkivolowitz@carthage.edu 262-551-6317 : Professor Perry Kivolowitz brings broad and deep academic and entrepreneurial experience in computer science to Carthage College. He has co-founded five tech companies principally in the computer graphics and visual effects fields. His contributions to filmmaking were recognized in 1996 with an Academy Award for Scientific and Technical Achievement (and for contributions to Babylon 5, an Emmy certificate in 1992). Notable early work includes Forrest Gump and Titanic . More recently he is a partner in SilhouetteFX, LLC, a maker of widely used software for rotoscoping, paint, and 2D to 3D motion picture conversion. Today, most high-profile motion pictures (such as the Harry Potter and Hobbit movies), a lot of television, and some graphic arts are touched by his inventions. Prof. Kivolowitz joined Carthage in 2015 after 10 years as a Faculty Associate at the University of Wisconsin-Madison Computer Sciences Department, where he was awarded the students trophy for Excellence in Teaching in May 2015. During the UWMadison Sesquicentennial Celebration, Prof. Kivolowitz was selected by the Chancellors office as being one of the 150 Ways the University of Wisconsin has touched the World. Also related to the Wisconsin Idea, that the work of the University of Wisconsin should impact the world, Prof. Kivolowitz wrote a zombie apocalypse novel, Get Off My L@wn, in which the end of humanity starts on the Madison campus. 3D stereo plus something less obvious. Prof. Kivolowitz is a partner in the company that made the software that assisted the preparation of the 3D version of Avatar . Plus something else. Can you spot it? Did the President really say that? Prof. Kivolowitz's invention was used to add the lip movements in Forrest Gump as well as make the handshake and feather happen. . . CSC 1810 Principles of Computer Science I CSC 1820 Principles of Computer Science II CSC 3510 Computer Organization CSC 3600 Data Communication CSC 4000 Senior Seminar CSC 4730 Operating Systems CSC 4770 Introduction to Computer Graphics CSC 4900 Senior Thesis Completion . . . 
