 Wenjie Sun Associate Professor ofGeospatial Science, Computer Science, and Asian Studies Straz Center 170 wsun@carthage.edu 262-551-2377 : Wenjie Sun joined Carthage in 2006. She is originally from Harbin city in northeastern China. She earned her B.S. in geography with a minor in economics from Beijing University. Prior to Carthage, Professor Sun went to graduate school at Indiana University, Bloomington, where she received her M.A. in geography, M.S. in computer science, and Ph.D. in Geographic Information Science (GIS). Wenjie Sun teaches courses in Geographic Information Science (GIS), Satellite Image and Air Photo Analysis, Human Geography, and Geography of East Asia. She has also led multiple interdisciplinary themed J-term trips to various parts of China. Professor Sun has been conducting research projects using GIS and Remote Sensing (RS) techniques to examine land use and land cover change (LUCC) from the perspective of human-environment interaction. For her dissertation work, she has been involved in a couple NSF-funded research projects on LUCC in southern Indiana and spatially explicit decision-making lab experiments combining GIS and experimental economics. She has published in the International Journal of Geographical Information Science and given a number of talks at national professional meetings. Professor Sun hasbeen conducting research projects using GIS and Remote Sensing techniques to examine land use and land cover change from the perspective of human-environment interaction.She is also interested in applying GIS and RS to a wider range of economic, social and environmental studies, particularly those involve undergraduate students through civic engagement. Since 2008, she has developed collaborative applied research opportunities with the Kenosha County Health Department on using GIS and spatial analyses to identify high-risk neighborhoods for the Kenosha-Racine Lead Free Communities Partnership Program. Recently, she has worked with students on Assessing the Effect of Brownfield Redevelopment on Surrounding Residential Property Values in Milwaukee using GIS. She is also actively pursuing undergraduate research and teaching opportunities on regional differences in China and East Asia. In her spare time, Professor Sun enjoys traveling, landscape photography, cooking, and badminton. . Ph.D. Geographic Information Science, Indiana University-Bloomington M.A. Geography,Indiana University-Bloomington M.S. Computer Science, Indiana University-Bloomington B.S. Geography, minor in Economics, Beijing University . GEO 1500Human Geography: An Introduction GEO 200TTopics in Geography GEO 2100The Human Landscape GEO 2300Economic Geography GEO 2600Mapping Your World: Introduction to Geographic Information Science GEO 2700Satellite Image and Air Photo Analysis GEO 2800Geography of East Asia GEO 2900Population Geography and Statistical Analysis GEO 3300Analytical Techniques in Geography GEO 3500Transportation Geography and Business Logistics GEO 3600Advanced Geographic Information Science GEO 3900Methods of Field Research GEO 4000Senior Seminar in Geography GEO 400TTopics in Geography GEO 4500Independent Study in Geography GEO 4600Applied Projects in Geographic Information Science GEO 4900Research in Geography . . . 
