 Search this site: Home City University of Hong Kong Department of Computer Science Research Teaching Professional Services Grants For New Research Students Tools MSEC W.K. Chan Wing-Kwong Chan BEng MPhil PhD HKU Associate Professor Department of Computer Science City University of Hong Kong Tat Chee Avenue, Kowloon Tong Hong Kong Office: Room G7309 (near lift 7, 7/f, green zone of Yeung (AC1) Building) Phone: +852 3442 9684 Fax: +852 3442 0503 Email: wkchan [at] cityu.edu.hk Web: http://www.cs.cityu.edu.hk/~wkchan W.K. Chan is an associate professor of computer science at City University of Hong Kong. He received all his BEng in Computer Engineering, MPhil degree and PhD degree from The University of Hong Kong. He was in the industry to manage and develop software applications for many years prior to returning to The University of Hong Kong to complete his PhD study. He is the special issues editor (2013-present) and editoiral board member (2008-present) of Journal of Systems and Software , an editor (2015-present) of International Journal of Creative Computing , an advisory editor (2015-present) of Internatonal Journal of Big Data Intelligent , and guest editors of a few international academic journals. He also serves as prgoram/review committee members of many international conferences. He was program co-chairs of QSIC'10 and AST'10, the SETA symposium chair of COMPSAC'15 (software engineering and technology), the area chair of ICWS'15 (services composition), the track chair of APSEC'12 (emerging research), and a steering committee member of IWPD. He is currently serving as a general chair of SETA symposium chair of COMPSA (2016-present). He delivered his first keynote address at IWPD'11. His work has been reported in more than 100 articles published at major publication venues including TSE, TOSEM, TPDS, T-Rel, TSC, TAAS, CACM, COMPUTER, JSS, IST, STVR, JWSR, SPE, ICSE, FSE, ASE, ISSTA, WWW, ICDCS, QSIC, QRS, ICWS, and COMPSAC. (Information about these published work can be found in his Google Scholar page .) He won the best paper awards from COMPSAC'04, COMPSAC'08, COMPSAC'10, QSIC'11, QRS'16, ISET'18. His WWW09 paper was nominated as best papers (6 out of 888 submissions). One of his papers was the feature article of the Sep/Oct 2015 issue of TSC. More than 10 conferences papers have been invited to be expanded into journal versions. His research has been funded by many competitive and external fund sources with a cumulativesum of more than 20 millions Hong Kong dollars. He teaches courses in the area of software engineering. They include couress in programming, software design, software enginering practice, and e-logistics appliaton developments. Over the years, he supervised many CS projects, Creative Media projects, e-Logistics projects, and eCommerce projects for both undergraduate students and master students. His CS students got the best CSE FYP project poster awards for two consecutive years (2013/14 and 2014/15), where each year only one CS student may receive this award. Some FYP students under his supervision also published and presented their FYP creative work in internatonal meetings or journals (e.g., Web-based recommendation , Bug detection , Debugging ). He graduated a few PhD students under his primary supervison or co-supervison, and they are working in either the industry (e.g., IBM Research China, Goldman Sachs Hong Kong, ASTRI) or the academica (e.g., Chinese Academyof Science, Beihang University). One of his PhD students is an Hong Kong PhD Fellowship awardee. If you would like to know more about his students (at all levels), you are welcome to visit the Research tab above. Dr Chan is the Program Leader of the MSc in E-Commerce programmee offered by the University. Again, if you want to know more about this programme, please visit the MSEC tab above. He also serves as the director of the CityUCS Laboratory of Software Engineering and Methodology. Dr Chan is one of the awardees of CityU's The President's Award 2017. Main Research Interests: Big Data Software Infrastructure Blockchain Concurrency GPU Code Machine Learning and AI for Software Engineering Program Testing and Debugging Program Analysis Security in Programs Software Engineering PhD Application (1 position) I am looking for a student who is strong in maths and programming and who is curious about systems and software research. Prospective studentsshouldsend all the related enquiries and CVs as well as research interests and dreams to me at wkchan@cityu.edu.hk for further discussion. The prospective student is also encouraged to apply for the HKSAR PhD Fellowship . Please send your email to me at the above email address, and put down my name (W.K. Chan) in your PhD applications; otherwise, your applications will not reach me. Anouncement User login Username: * Password: * Request new password Calendar November S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 Selected Tags conference journal Tag Groups Research Teaching Links Copyright 2018 City University of Hong Kong 
