 Toggle navigation Home 4Students Publications Projects SCoRe CV JARIC ZOLA I am an assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the State Univeristy of New York at Buffalo, and in the Department of Biomedical Informatics in the UB School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences. At UB, I lead SCoRe - Scalable Computing Research Group that focuses on the use of advanced cyberinfrastructures to enable fast and accurate exploration of large biological and engineering data collections. The group designs algorithms, data structures and implementations that scale from multi- and many-cores to petascale systems and beyond. I received M.Sc. degree in Computer Science from Czestochowa University of Technology (Poland) and Ph.D. degree from Grenoble Institute of Technology (France) in 2001 and 2005, respectively. In 2014 I joined University at Buffalo where I work to date. Prior to joining UB I worked at Rutgers Discovery Informatics Institute and Iowa State University . In 2014, I served on the joint AAAS and FBI working group on Big Data in Life Sciences and National Security. I am a founding co-chair of the ACM International Workshop on Big Data in Life Sciences (BigLS) and the Workshop on Parallel Computational Biology (PBC) . I am a senior member of the Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) , member of the IEEE Computer Society , the Association for the Computing Machinery (ACM) , ACM SIGHPC and ACM SIGBio. Currently, I serve as a Student Travel Awards Chair for IEEE TCPP . Outside of my professional life I pursue photography, touch on design and typography, and I am a big fan of Riverside , one of the best new generation prog rock bands. You are welcome to visit my virtual photo gallery ! Finally, my first name is Jarosaw , which in Polish shortens to Jarek . However, I usually go by Jaric , which is a consensus of the most common misspellings of Jarek I encountered in emails addressed to me :-) Anyway, you can use any form you like, I will not be offended! More News NSF CAREER Award I have been awarded NSF CAREER grant to continue work on scalable probabilistic graphical modeling with applications to biomedical informatics. 02/06/2019, 01:35 PM Teaching Award I have been recognized with Early Career Faculty Teaching Award by the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at UB. 02/06/2019, 01:33 PM IPDPS 2019 I am a Workshops Vice-Chair for IPDPS 2019. 08/18/2018, 04:23 AM Show all... Contact Dr. Jaroslaw Zola Assistant Professor University at Buffalo, SUNY Department of Computer Science and Engineering Davis Hall Buffalo, NY, 14260-2500 Department of Biomedical Informatics 77 Goodell Street, UB Gateway Office 540B Buffalo, NY 14203-1243 jzola@buffalo.edu +1 (716) 645-3187 PGP 0x28E50BF7 I Can! ELaSTIC Understanding Fluid Flow Bayesian Networks Spectral Dimensionality Reduction 4Students I am always looking for motivated students to work with. If you are searching for an exciting Ph.D. topic, engaging master's project, or simply want to get your first undergraduate research experience, you should contact me ! To help you, here is a set of skills that I am particularly looking for (in no specific order): mastery of modern C++, basics of machine learning (knowing PGMs would be awesome), the ability to design algorithms. If you join SCoRe , you will be given an opportunity to work with some of the fastest supercomputers in the world on problems pertaining to human health, big data and intriguing physical systems. The free lunch is over and the ability to design scalable solutions is a critical asset desired by both industry and academia. Life sciences have been caught in data deluge with the estimated market value of hundreds of billions USD, triggered by the next generation DNA sequencing technologies. The progress in engineering depends more than ever on massive amounts of sensor and simulation data. SCoRe, Scalable Computing Research Group, is focused on problems at the intersection of scalable computing and life sciences, as well as data-driven scientific computing a very unique combination! Visit http://www.score-group.org/ to learn more about the group! Office Hours Department of Computer Science and Engineering Tuesdays, 1pm-3pm Capen Hall, Room 209 Department of Biomedical Informatics By appointment only UB Gateway, Room 540B Current Courses CSE|BMI 577 - Processing of Strings and Sequences 2014-2019 Jaroslaw Zola 
