I have published 671 papers, given 57 different tutorials and extensive training courses in various conferences in USA, and numerous institutions in Canada, Taiwan, Korea, Jordan, UAE, Malaysia, and India in the areas of Ad hoc and Sensor Networks and Mesh Networks, including security issues. I was appointed as the founding Editor-in-Chief of the Central European Journal of Computer Science, Versita. I have graduated 72 PhDs and 63 MS students. I have also been named as an ISI Highly Cited Researcher in Computer Science (top 3 percent). I have received numerous awards from the IEEE Computer Society, including a Core Member and IEEE second Millennium Medal. I am a winner of 2008 Harry Goode Memorial award from the IEEE Computer Society and 2011 Award for Excellence in Mentoring of Doctoral Students, University of Cincinnati.; |nLab Website; |nPh.D, University of Massachusetts Amherst, 1990 ; |nPh.D., University of Minnesota Minneapolis, MN, 2014 (Computer Science) ; |nDr. Je-Hyeong Bahk is currently assistant professor jointly at the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computing Systems and the Department of Mechanical and Materials Engineering at theUniversity of Cincinnati, OH, USA, Dr. Bahk has worked in the field of thermoelectrics for more than 10 years since his Ph.D study at University of California, Santa Barbara. He has participated in numerous research projects on design and fabrication of efficient nanotechnology-based thermoelectric materials and devices, and also developed several online simulation toolsat nanoHUB.orgcapable of thermoelectric devices and materials simulation for research and education.; |nPh.D, ; |nPh.D, University of Maryland College Park, 1989 ; |nPunit Boolchand is a materials scientist and thedirector of the Solid State Physics and Electronic Materials Laboratory.He discovered the Intermediate Phase .His experimental data over a 25-year period (19822007) formed the basis for the theory of network glasses developed by James Charles Phillips and Michael Thorpe. The theory was adopted by Corning Inc.and was a substantial factor contributing to the development ofGorilla glass by Corning scientists including John. C. Mauro. These networks, although disordered, exhibit many nearly ideal properties that have revolutionized glass science and technology, as part of HD TV and glass covers for devices such as cell phones.; |nM. Cahay has twenty five years experience in the field of nanoscience and nanotechnology and vacuum micro- and nano-electronics. He has published over 125 refereed journal papers and 55 refereed conference proceedings papers. He is an active member of the Electrochemical Society (ECS) for which he has co-edited of 11 proceedings volumes of symposia on quantum confinement and cold cathodes. He has been on the board of the IEEE Technical Committee on Spintronics and Nanomagnetism since 2002, has served on the program committees of 30 international conferences. He has written a book on an Introduction to Spintronics with Prof. Bandyopadhyay from Virginia Commonwealth University. His current area of research deals with generation of spin polarized currents by purely electrical means using asymmetrically bias quantum point contacts with in-plane side gates, experimental and theoretical investigations of field emission from carbon nanotube fibers and second electron emission from various anode materials. ; |nPh.D, Purdue University 1986 ; |nDr. Fred Chiou obtained his Ph.D. and M.S. degrees, both in Electrical Engineering, from Georgia Institute of Technology in 1998 and 1985 respectively. Before teaching in the academia, he worked in the electronics and computer engineering industry for more than 20 years until 2011. After teaching at Southern Polytechnic State University (SPSU) as an Adjunct Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering for two years, in July 2013, he joined Weber State University as an Assistant Professor in the Department of Engineering Technology. In 2015, he served as the program coordinator of Electronics Engineering Technology program. He was promoted to Associate Professor in April, 2016. Dr. Chiou was awarded twice to participate the Visiting Faculty Program supported by Department of Energy for the research project related to renewable energy and microgrid at Idaho National Laboratory (INL) in summer 2016 and 2017 individually. Dr. Chiou joined University of Cincinnati as an Associate Professor Educator in the department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science in January 2018.; |nRui Dai joined the faculty of University of Cincinnati as an assistant professor in computer engineering in 2014. She received her BS in Electronics and Information Engineering and MS in Communications and Information Systems from the Department of Electronics and Information Engineering, Huazhong University of Science and Technology (HUST), Wuhan, China, in 2004 and 2007, respectively. She received her PhD degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA. in 2011, under the supervision of Professor Ian. F. Akyildiz in the Broadband Wireless Networking Laboratory. She was a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Assistive Technology and Environmental Access of Georgia Tech from 2011 to 2012. More recently, she was an assistant professor at the Department of Computer Science at North Dakota State University.; |nPh.D., University of Manitoba Winnipeg, MB, 2015 (Electrical and Computer Engineering) ; |nDr. John (Marty) Emmert joined the faculty of the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department in 2018.He has six United States patents and has directed over $5M in research funding. In addition, he and colleagues have been awarded five phase II Small Business Innovative Research contracts from the Department of Defense. He is a senior member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), and he has received the IEEE Harold Nobel Award and the AFRL Sensors Directorate James B. Tsui Award for best patent. His research interests span various topics including: VLSI Design and Architectures, ASICs, FPGAs, Embedded Systems, Hardware Security and Trust, Reconfigurable Computing, Fault Tolerance for Integrated Circuits, Electronic Warfare, GPS, and Automated Tools for IC Design and Trust. His research has been funded by AFRL, DARPA, NSF, State of Ohio and various industries including EDAptive Computing Inc. He also served on active duty and as a reservist in the United States Air Force from 1989-2015. In the Air Force he held positions from UAV pilot to reserve wing commander, and he retired after 26 years as a Colonel. He has been awarded the Air Force Legion of Merit and five Meritorious Service Medals.; |nDr. Esfandiari joined the College of Engineering and Applied Science at the University of Cincinnati as an Assistant Professor with dual appointment in Electrical Engineering and Biomedical Engineering. She completed her doctoral degree in Bioengineering from the University of California Los Angeles (UCLA). She earned her Master of Science in Biomedical Engineering from the University of California Irvine with focus on design and development of a microfluidic platform for studying neurogenesis. Also, she obtained her Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering from California State University. While at UCLA, Esfandiari also conducted research for the California Nano-System Institution (CNSI), and the Orthopedic Surgery Laboratory. During her academic training, Esfandiari has spent time giving back by leading and training graduate and undergraduate students in conducting research and experiments. Besides her academic practice, she has 4 years of industrial experience at Applied Medical Co and Honeywell Inc. Dr. Esfandiari has a multidisciplinary research background in development of Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS) for studying cell mechanics, nano-surface chemistry and development of molecular biosensors. At University of Cincinnati, she is leading the Integrative BioSensing Laboratory with the main focus on design and development of miniaturized biosensors and bio-platforms for point-of-care (POC) medical diagnostics, preventive and therapeutic medicine.; |nM.S., Ohio State University 1970 ; |nPh.D, University of Illinois Champaign-Urbana, 1985 ; |nPh.D, Case Western Reserve 1963 ; |nProf. Franco is director of the National Center of Academic Excellence in Cyber Operations at the University of Cincinnati. The Center is a collaborative effort involving three university colleges, and two local major defense contractors for advanced training in cyber operations and cyber security. Prof. Franco is editor-in-chief of the Journal on Satisfiability, Boolean Modeling, and Computation, and an editor of the Annals of Mathematics and Artificial Intelligence. He is Vice Chair of the SAT Association and a member of the steering committee for the annual Internation Conference on the Theory and Applications of Satisfiability Testing. Prof. Franco has been PI, Co-PI, or Senior Personnel on 18 grants and contracts from the ONR, AFOSR, EPA, NSA, and NSF. He spent 9 months sabbatical leave at Fort George G. Meade in Research and Engineering on Satisfiability research, was visiting scientist at FAW, Ulm, Germany for three summers, and visiting scientist at U. Paderborn for a summer. ; |nGrant: #18-S8401-16-Cl / FA8650-16-C-2642 Investigators:Fuchs, Zachariah 09-01-2018 -08-31-2020 Air Force Research Laboratory Theoretic and Numerical Methods to Control Strategies for Relational Maneuvering between Multi-Agent Systems Role:PI $20,000.00 Awarded Level:Federal; |nPh.D, University of Cincinnati Cincinnati, 1985 (Computer Engineering) ; |nMore info: www.noveldevicelab.com / www.eccrine.com / www.uc1819.com See Prof. Heikenfeld in a 2015 UC Faces Video .; |nThe focus of my research and teaching have been in the core area of Systems/Controls, with specialization in the development and application of practical, nondestructive evaluation techniques for damage identification, system identification and parameter estimation, condition assessment, health monitoring, remote monitoring/sensing, and associated information technologies. This includes the development of all necessary hardware, software, and algorithms for instrumentation, signal processing and data interpretation. I have worked on extensive application of these techniques in the areas of civil infrastructure systems, biomedicine, and aerospace.; |nPh.D, University of Rhode Island 1998 ; |nThe focus of my research has been in the core area of Systems/Controls, with an emphasis on damage identification, system identification and parameter estimation, condition assessment, health monitoring, remote monitoring/sensing, and related information and other technologies. My history of multi-disciplinary projects demonstrates my ability and interest in the development and application of practical ideas and techniques to important and timely problems that cross several fields of expertise and draw from many sciences. I have developed hardware, software, and algorithms for signal processing, data interpretation, insitu control, and automated reporting. I have worked on extensive application of these techniques, specifically in the areas of civil infrastructure systems, materials science, and aerospace. Structural testing and monitoring, with extensive background with highway bridges. Environmental monitoring and alerting, with specific application to icing and snow accumulation (and shedding) on highway features. Unmanned aircraft vehicles (UAVs) flights and applications for the DOT, with particular results in photogrammetic models, surveying, structural and facility inspection, video monitoring and processing of traffic parameters, event documentation and social networking and planning, etc.; |nDr. Rashmi Jha is an Associate Professor in Electrical Engineering and Computing Systems Department at the University of Cincinnati. She worked as an Assistant Professor and then Associate Professor in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department at the University of Toledo from 2008 to 2015. Before this, she worked as a Process Integration Engineer for 45 nm/32 nm High-k/Metal Gates based Advanced CMOS technology at Semiconductor Research and Development Center, IBM, East Fishkill New York between 2006-2008. She finished her Ph.D. and M.S. in Electrical Engineering from North Carolina State University in 2006 and 2003, respectively, and B.Tech. in Electrical Engineering from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur, India in 2000. She has more than 13 years of experience in the areas of Solid State Electronic/Nanoelectronic Device Fabrication, Electrical Characterization, Data Analysis, and Device Modeling. She has been granted 12 US patents and has authored/co-authored several publications in the areas of nanoelectronic devices. She has been a recipient of CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation in 2013, IBM Faculty Award in 2012, IBM Invention Achievement Award in 2007, Materials Research Society's Graduate Student Award in 2006, Applied Materials Fellowship Award in 2005-2006, and the best student paper award nomination in IEEE International Electron Devices Meeting (IEDM) in 2005. Her current research interests lie in the areas of Nanoelectronic Devices Enabled Future Neuromorphic Computing Systems, Resistive Random Access Memory Devices and other Emerging Memory and Logic Devices, Spintronics, Neuroscience and Cognitive Modeling, Neuroelectronics, Emerging Nanoscale Devices Enabled Cyber-Security Systems, Flexible/Invisible Logic and Memory Devices for Wearable Computing, Solid Oxide Battery Devices, and Energy Harvesting Devices. ; |nWen-Ben Jone was an Assistant and Associate Professor of the Department of Computer Science at New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology, Socorro, New Mexico, 1987-1993. From 1993 to 2000, he joined the Department of Computer Engineering and Information Science, National Chung-Cheng University, Chiayi, Taiwan, as a Visiting Associate Professor and then a Full professor. From 2001, he has been an Associate Professor of the Department of Electrical Engineering & Computing Systems, University of Cincinnati. He has advised more than 70 MS/PhD theses in the area of VLSI design and test. He has published more than 60 journal papers and 100 conference papers. Dr. Jone is a co-recipient of the 2003 IEEE Donald G. Fink Prize Paper Award, the best paper award of 2008 International Symposium on Low-Power Electronics & Design, and 2012 International Symposium on VLSI Design, Automation & Test. He has been a program committee of VLSI-related conferences such as IEEE International Symposium on Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems.; |nPh.D, University of New South Wales 1976 ; |nWebsite: https://eecs.ceas.uc.edu/AIM/ Dr. Tao Li joined the Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science (EECS) at the University of Cincinnati as an Associate Professor in August 2018. He was a research faculty member (Associate Research Scientist) and Adjunct Assistant Professor in the EECS Department andthe Center for Wireless Integrated MicroSensing and Systems (WIMS2) at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor . He received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in engineering from Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. Dr. Tao Li'sresearch interests include micromachined sensors and actuators, nontraditional microfabrication technologies, microsystem packaging and integration, and sensor electronic interfaces and embedded systems. He has an interdisciplinary background among the areas of electrical, biomedical and mechanical engineering, with over 15 years of experience working in the fields of micromachined transducers and microsystems, particularly for biomedical and environmental monitoring applications.; |nGeneral - Tamara Lorenz is an Assistant Professor at the University of Cincinnati. She is jointly affiliated with the Department of Psychology, the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computation Science and the Department of Mechanical and Materials Engineering. Tamara Lorenz received her diploma (Dipl.-Ing., equivalent to a MSc.) in Mechanical Engineering from Technische Universitt Mnchen (TUM) in 2008 and her Ph.D. from the Graduate School of Systemic Neurosciences at Ludwig-Maximilians University (LMU) in Munich, Germany in 2015. During her Ph.D. she was affiliated with both the General and Experimental Psychology Department at LMU and the Institute of Information-Oriented Control at TUM. For her dissertation she explored emergent coordination and adaptation during human joint action and during human interaction with robots in order to create models for safe and acceptable HRI. ; |nProf. Ali A. Minai received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering at postdoctoral training in computational neuroscience at the University of Virginia. Dr. Minai has published over 100 peer reviewed papers and edited eight books in the area of complex systems. He received an INSPIRE research award from the National Science Foundation in 2012. Dr. Minai was President of the International Neural Network Society in 2015 and 2016. Currently he is a member of the society's Board of Governors. He has helped organize several conferences on complex systems, and served as the General Chair for the 2011 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN 2011) and the 2011 International Conference on Complex Systems (ICCS 2011). He is an action editor for Neural Networks and for Cognitive Systems Research, and an associate editor of the IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks & Learning Systems. He is a senior member of the IEEE, and the International Neural Network Society, and a member of AAAS and the Society for Neuroscience. Dr. Minai is also a member of the University of Cincinnati's neuroscience graduate faculty.; |nMy current research interests focus on the information seeking strategies that developers use in software engineering. I take an ecological-evolutionary, foraging-theoretic approach to understanding and improving developers' search for relevant information in their daily activities, such as debugging, refactoring, and reuse. My research group investigates how the task environment and the information environment re-shape developers' behaviors, or more accurately, how the developers' behaviors and their environments co-evolve, each shaping the other in important ways. My CAREER project (see http://ceas.uc.edu/news-1415/niu-receives-nsf-career-award.html) links software developers' rational behaviors together with their social information foraging, learning, and co-creation.; |nGrant: #OU UT17790 sub FHA 25160B Investigators:Helmicki, Arthur; Hunt, Victor; Norouzi, Mehdi 10-26-2015 -10-26-2016 Federal Highway Administration Preliminary Measurement and Analysis of Flexure and shear Strain for a Carbon Fiber- Wrapped Pier Cap Bridge No. FRA-071-1835L Role:Collaborator $46,110.28 Awarded Level:Federal; |nProf. Carla Purdy has authored or co-authored over 80 journal and refereed conference papers in computer engineering, computer science, mathematics, mentoring, and teaching since 1975. She has graduated four Ph.D. students and 90 M.S. students and has advised a number of M.Eng. and Senior Project students since joining the University of Cincinnati faculty in 1986. She is a member of the standing committee for the International IEEE Symposium on Circuits and Systems and she co-chaired the symposium in 2005 and 2013. She is also an affiliate faculty member in the Department of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies and a founding member of UC's WISE (Women in Science and Engineering) Committee. She is currently head of the EECS B.S. in Computer Engineering program. Her up-to-date vita can be found on her webpage, eecs.ceas.uc.edu/~cpurdy; |nI have taught electrical engineering and electrical engineering technology courses full-time & part-time since August, 1982. I have also worked several years in the electric energy and control industry on electrical engineering projects. Prior to teaching full-time at the higher education institutions, I was senior electrical engineer and project manager in charge of the Electrical and Control Division at the Watkins Engineering Firm. Currently, I am a Professor and ECET Program Director in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computing Systems at the College of Engineering and Applied Science. I am also program advisor for the Electric Energy & SmartGrid, Electronic Engineering Technology, and Computer Engineering Technologyminors. Research Interests: Design, construction and analysis of light-weight CNT-type electric machines. Digital Control of Electro Mechanical and Solid State Power Electronic Devices. Analysis and use of Electric Drives in Robotics and Electric Vehicle Systems. Embedded Controllers, Micro Controllers, Programmable Automation Controllersand Programmable Logic Controllers. Use of Sensors in Digital and Analog Electric Circuits and Analog-Digital Mixed Signal Electronic Circuits. Design and Programming Industrial Network, Automated Manufacturing, Industrial Control, and Process Control Systems.; |nI teach a wide range of Computer Science courses including Intriduction to Computer science (CS-I), C++ programming for computer engineering, Discrete Mathematics, Data Structures, Design and Analysis of Algorithms, Programming Languages, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Adanced Machine Learning (Kernel methods).; |nPh.D, University of Rochester 1973 ; |nGrant: #Engineering Models I and II Investigators:Boerio, F James; Bucks, Gregory; Kastner, Jeffrey; Ossman, Kathleen; Roseman, Rodney; Torsella, Joni 03-11-2013 -03-10-2014 MathWorks, Inc. Inclusion of Data Acquisition Technology in a Collection of Introductory Engineering Courses Role:Collaborator $37,131.00 Active Level:Industry; |nSBBE, Sensory ecology, models of bat echolocation and flight control, robotic and computational models of animal behaviour and perception. Models of human cognition.; |n|nDr. Ranga Vemuri has been on the faculty of Electrical and Computer Engineering at University of Cincinnati since 1989 and is currently a Professor. His interests span various topics withinHardware Trust, Correctness and Security; VLSI Design and Architectures; Embedded Systems, Cyber-Physical Systems and Applications; Formal Methods and Formal Verification; Electronic Design Automation, Logic and Physical Synthesis; Reconfigurable Computing and FPGAs; Approximate Computing; Sensor Networks. He and his students have published over 250 papers. Dr. Vemuri graduated over 40 PhD and 60 MS students. His reseach has been funded by AFRL, DARPA, NSF, SRC, State of Ohio and various industries including EDAptive Computing Inc..; |nBoyang Wang is a tenure-track Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Cincinnati. He received his Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Arizona in 2017, his Ph.D. in Cryptography and B.S. in Information Security from Xidian University, China, in 2013 and 2007, respectively. He worked for Bosch Research and Technology Center as a research intern in 2015. He was a visiting student at Utah State University from 2012 to 2013 and a visiting student at the University of Toronto from 2010 to 2012. His research interests include privacy-preserving technologies, applied cryptography, data privacy and network security. He is a member of IEEE. He received Outstanding Ph.D. Dissertation Award from Xidian University in 2014 and Presidential Doctoral Research Fellowship from Utah State University in 2014.; |nDr.Wee'sresearch interests are in the general area of artificial intelligence and computer vision. The former includes artificial neural networks and pattern recognition, while the latter includes 3-D filtering, solid and surface extraction and representation, reverse engineering using range and CT data, color picture and video compression, applications of 3-D data processing to machine inspection and manufacturing quality control, and biomedical applications. Most recently, he also works in aircraft engine inspection.; |nPh.D., University of Cincinnati Cincinnati, Ohio, 2015 (Aerospace Engineering) ; |nMy research and teaching interests lie at the intersection of nanoscience, electrochemistry and the biological interface. The research interests in our group focus on the development of new (bio)analytical methods to probe chemical and biological systems with unprecedented spatial and temporal resolutions afforded by working at the nanoscale. The scope of this research is quite broad, ranging from studies of fundamental chemical and biological phenomena to the development of applied sensor technologies. As such, students in the group can expect to gain valuable interdisciplinary laboratory experience. Ryan J. White is an Associate Professor and Ohio Eminent Scholar in the Department of Chemistry with a joint appointment in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computing Systems. Ryan received his bachelors degree in chemistry from the University of North Carolina (2003) and earned a Ph.D. in chemistry from the University of Utah (2007). He was an NIH NRSA Postdoctoral Fellow at the University of California Santa Barbara. Ryan started his academic career as an assistant professor in Chemistry and Biochemistry at UMBC in 2011, and was promoted to associate professor with tenure in 2016. Ryan joined UC in the fall of 2017. Ryan is also the recipient of the Royce W. Murray Young Investigator Award from the Society for Electroanalytical Chemistry. ; |nI am working in High Performance Computing , Data Science , Parallel and Distributed Simulation , Embedded Systems , and Point-of-Care medical devices . I have been working with Random and Approximate Methods to improve the performance of Topological Data Aalysis (TDA), specifically persistent homology. These studies have focused on partitioning and parallelism to decompose the problem into a collection of subparts that can be processed in parallel. Because the TDA algorithms have exponentional complexity in both time and space, decomposing and partitioning the data into regional subspaces has dramatic impact on the overall performance. In Big Data Clustering , I have been working to combine random projection hashing with locality sensitive hashing to implement high-performance, distributed privacy preserving data mining . The projection and hashing approach permits us to perform clustering on distributed data sets by exchanging only hash keys between the distributed nodes. The hash keys are produced by destructive transforms so that the original data in the distributed network remains fully protected. We are promoting these techniques to enable clustering and nearest neighbor search across HIPAA protected medical databases. In addition, I have been working extensively for many years to advance the field of Parallel and Distributed Simulation (PDES) using the Time Warp mechanism. Most recently we have been studying the design of solutions for the pending event set problem for high performance simulation on multi-core and many-core platforms. I have initiated studies to extract profile data from discrete event simulation models to obtain quantitative data that I plan to use to focus my algorithm development for parallel simulation. Finally, I am working with the local BioSensors group and College of Medicine to develop point-of-care medical devices to assist patient diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring.; |nFrank Zhou received the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical Engineering in 2002 and 2006, respectively, both from the University of Cincinnati where he joined the faculty as an Assistant Professor in September 2005, and was promoted to Associate Professor inSeptember2010. From 1995 to2000, he worked as a R&D Engineer, then Senior Engineer and Project Manager in the industry designing and developing distributed computer control systems, real-time embedded systems for various process controls. He is the recipient of 2011 and a co-recipient of 2012 William E. Restemeyer Teaching Excellence Award from DEECS. He is also a recipient of 2013 and 2018CEAS Master Educator Award.He is a senior member of IEEE. Currently, he serves as the Director of Master of Engineering (MENG) Graduate Program andsupervises the Wireless and Mobile Communication Lab (WMCL).; |n