ctype html public "-//w3c//dtd html 4.0 transitional//en"> Paul LaFollette Paul S. LaFollette, Jr. MD, Associate Professor Department of Computer and Information Sciences Fortified Church in Biertan, Romania Some day, after we have mastered the wind, the waves, the tides, and gravity, we shall harness for God the energies of Love. Then, for the second time in the history of the world, we will have discovered fire. -Teilhard de Chardin- No union is more profound than marriage, for it embod ies the highest ideals of love, fidelity, devotion, sacrifice, and family. In forming a marital union, two people become something greater than once they were. As some of the petitioners in these cases demonstrate, marriage embodies a love that may endure even past death. It would misunderstand these men and women to say they disrespect the idea of marriage. Their plea is that they do respect it, respect it so deeply that they seek to find its fulfillment for themselves. Their hope is not to be condemned to live in loneliness, excluded from one of civilization's oldest institutions. They ask for equal dignity in the eyes of the law. The Constitution grants them that right. The judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit is reversed. It is so ordered. -- Justice Kennedy, Supreme Court of the United States "And behind all this pain, death and destruction there is the stench of what Basil of Caesarea, one of the church's first theologians, called 'the dung of the devil.' An unfettered pursuit of money rules. That is the dung of the devil." --Pope Francis Peace. It does not mean to be in a place where there is no noise, trouble or hard work. It means to be in the midst of those things and still be calm in your heart. (unknown) You can only find truth with logic if you have already found truth without it. -- G. K. Chesterton O beauty of the vales of Har, we live not for ourselves, Thou seest me the meanest thing, and so I am indeed: My bosom of itself is cold, and of itself is dark, But he that loves the lowly, pours his oil upon my head And kisses me, and binds his nuptial bands around my breast. And says; Thou mother of my children, I have loved thee And I have given thee a crown that none can take away. But how this is sweet maid, I know not, and I cannot know I ponder, and I cannot ponder; yet I live and love. -William Blake- Leadership means finding a new direction, not simply putting yourself at the front of the herd that's heading toward the cliff. -William Deresiewicz- To announce that there must be no criticism of the president, or that we are to stand by the president right or wrong, is not only unpatriotic and servile, but is morally treasonable to the American public. -Theodore Roosevelt- Every gun that is made, every warship launched, every rocket fired signifies in the final sense, a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and are not clothed. This world in arms is not spending money alone. It is spending the sweat of its laborers, the genius of its scientists, the hopes of its children. This is not a way of life at all in any true sense. Under the clouds of war, it is humanity hanging on a cross of iron. ~Dwight D. Eisenhower When the rich wage war, it's the poor who die. ~Jean-Paul Sartre Liberty and democracy become unholy when their hands are dyed red with innocent blood. ~Gandhi War will exist until that distant day when the conscientious objector enjoys the same reputation and prestige that the warrior does today. ~John F. Kennedy War is only a cowardly escape from the problems of peace. -Thomas Mann- A day will come when a cannon will be exhibited in museums, just as instruments of torture are now, and the people will be astonished that such a thing could have been. ~Victor Hugo Your task it is, amid confusion, rush, and noise, to grasp the lasting, calm, and meaningful, and finding it anew, to hold and treasure it. -Paul Hindemith- Bind me -- I still can sing -- Banish -- my mandolin Strikes true within-- Slay -- and my Soul shall rise Chanting to Paradise -- Still thine. -Emily Dickinson- He who joyfully marches in rank and file has already earned my contempt. He has been given a large brain by mistake, since for him the spinal cord would suffice. -Albert Einstein- In truth, I am nothing but a plodding mediocrity--please observe, a plodding mediocrity--for a mere mediocrity does not go very far, but a plodding one gets quite a distance. There is joy in that success, and a distinction can come from courage, fidelity and industry. --Supreme Court Justice, Benjamin N. Cardozo The fatal pedagogical error is to throw answers, like stones, at the heads of those who have not yet asked the questions. - Paul Tillich The American university is built on two false premises: that all teachers must add to the existing stock of knowledge by research, and that all self-respecting institutions fulfill this role only by employing productive scholars...Of course, the teacher must keep reading and thinking abreast of his time, but this does not mean that he must write and publish. The confusion hides a further absurd assumption, which is that when a man writes a scholarly book that reaches a dozen specialists he adds immeasurably to the world's knowledge; whereas if he imparts his thoughts and his reading to one hundred and fifty students every year, he is wasting his time and leaving the world in darkness. One is tempted to ask what blinkered pedant ever launched the notion that students in coming to college seceded from the human race and may therefore be safely left out when knowledge is being broadcast. -- J. Barzun (Teacher in America) We look forward to the time when the Power of Love will replace the Love of Power. Then will our world know the blessings of peace. ~William Ewart Gladstone Be the change you wish to see in the world -- Mohandas K. Gandhi He not busy being born is busy dying. -- Bob Dylan The emperor marched in the procession under the beautiful canopy, and all who saw him in the street and out of the windows exclaimed: "Indeed, the emperor's new suit is incomparable! What a long train he has! How well it fits him!" Nobody wished to let others know he saw nothing, for then he would have been unfit for his office or too stupid. Never emperor's clothes were more admired. "But he has nothing on at all," said a little child at last. "Good heavens! listen to the voice of an innocent child," said the father, and one whispered to the other what the child had said. "But he has nothing on at all," cried at last the whole people. That made a deep impression upon the emperor, for it seemed to him that they were right; but he thought to himself, "Now I must bear up to the end." And the chamberlains walked with still greater dignity, as if they carried the train which did not exist. -Hans Christian Andersen- Third cousin four times removed OFFICE : Room 326 SERC PHONE : (215)204-6822 E-ADDRESS: paul.lafollette@temple.edu Current Courses CIS 1057 CIS 2168 Dull Dull Deathly Dull Things Curriculum Vitae Foolishness and Family Pictures and stuff links To CIS Department Home Page 
