 Nazli Goharian is Clinical Professor of Computer Science at Georgetown University, and Associate Director of the Information Retrieval Lab . Prior to joining Georgetown, she was Clinical Associate Professor of Computer Science and a member of the Information Retrieval Laboratory at the Illinois Institute of Technology (IIT). She joined academia from industry, where she was the Project Manager for Data Warehouse Conferencing at MCI Worldcom. Her research, publications, and doctoral student mentorship span the domains of information retrieval, text mining, and natural language processing. Specifically, her interest lies on humane-computing applications; as such, she has been focusing on text processing in medical/health domain. She has graduated four doctoral students with strong publication records and placement in the workplace (i.e., Senior Scientist at Max Planck Institute for Informatics, Research Scientist at the Allan Institute for Artificial Intelligence, Applied Scientist at Amazon Alexa AI, and Senior Principal Data Scientist at DataXu). Her doctoral student was selected as the Exceptional doctoral student in Science discipline at Georgetown University in 2018 based on research achievements. She in collaboration with her doctoral students has a Best Long Paper Award at EMNLP 2017; and an Area Chair Favorite in COLING 2018. She has also supervised multiple MS Theses and more than a dozen MS projects. She has supervised undergraduate students under NSF REU. She has over 60 refereed conference and journal publications. She was recognized numerous times for her contributions to undergraduate and graduate curriculum development and excellence in teaching. In 2005, she was awarded the College of Science and Letters Dean's Excellence Award in Teaching and in 2002, 2003, and 2007, the Computer Science Department Teacher of the Year Award. In 2009, she was awarded the IIT Julia Beveridge Award for faculty (female faculty of the year). Since the start of the CS doctoral program at Georgetown (2011) she has been running (founded & running) the Semi-Annual Graduate Research Presentation Days where the graduate students present their published/accepted research work. 
