 Dr Irina V. Biktasheva Research interests Computational mathematics, computational biology, non-linear waves in regimes of self-organised synchronisation (excitable and oscillatory systems), asymptotic theory of spiral waves, wave-particle duality of dissipative vortices, computer modelling for cardiology, High Performance Computing. Publications EPSRC funded Projects Software DXSpiral Beatbox BeatBox Workshop , The University of Manchester, UK, 24-25 June, 2013 Talks (video) & Tutorials (video and handouts) EPCC blogs Day 1 Day 2 Public Lectures "Wave-particle duality of dissipative vortices and implications for cardiology" (Video) , in Auckland Bioengineering Institute seminar series , 30th August 2016, University of Auckland, New Zealand. "Cardiac re-entry dynamics in MRI- and micro-CT based models of the heart" (Podcast) , in Integrative Cardiac Dynamics Research Program , 6th July 2018, Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics, University of California, Santa Barbara, USA. PhD projects The Department of Computer Science of the University of Liverpool offers two fully funded PhD positions for UK, and EU students, to start from the next academic year 2019/2020. You can apply online . The deadline for this PhD application round is Friday, March 1st, 2019 . While applications will be possible until all positions are filled, your chances will be increased by applying before this deadline. For candidates with suitable qualifications, I will offer the following PhD projects: Optimal visualisation of cardiac re-entry in anatomically detailed models. (CS, Computer Graphics) Automatic conversion of CellML models into BeatBox modules. (CS) Anatomy induced dynamics of cardiac re-entry in MRI and micro-CT anatomy models. (CS, Computer Graphics, Computer Simulations, Applied Maths, Physics) Dynamics of dissipative vortices: response functions framework. (Applied Maths, Physics) Whether you are eligible for the University of Liverpool scholarship, or have your own funding, if you have suitable qualifications and are interested in doing the above projects, please do not hesitate to contact me (ivb at liverpool dot ac dot uk) to discuss the projects. Administrative Responsibilities Coordinator of BSc Comp391/2, Comp390/3/4/5, and MEng Comp591/2, Final Year Projects . Coordinator for Ethics in Teaching & Learning ; member of the Faculty of Science and Engineering Research Ethics Committee . Teaching B.Sc. Modules. Comp305 : Class Tests . Part I : Artificial Neural Networks. Lecture notes. Recommended textbooks. Some practical examples on ANNs McCulloch-Pitts Neuron example. learning rules: Hebb's rule. Perceptron rule. Multilayer Perceptron rule. Normalised Hebb's rule. Normalised Hebb's rule: Associative Memory. Part II : Genetic Algorithms. Lecture notes. Recommended textbooks. COMP390/3/4/5 : Honours Year Project. Please see my available Honours Year projects at the Departmental COMP390/3/4/5 E-project system. COMP391/2 : CS-MATH one semester projects. Please see my available CS-MATH one semester projects at the Departmental Comp391/2 E-project system. MEng Modules. Comp591 : MEng Group Project. Please see my available MEng Group projects at the Departmental Comp591 E-project system. Comp592 : MEng Individual Project. Please see my available MEng Individual projects at the Departmental Comp592 E-project system. M.Sc. Modules. Comp702 : Msc Project. Please see my available MSc projects at the Departmental Comp702 E-project system. Contact Mail: Department of Computer Science, University of Liverpool, Liverpool L69 3BX Phone: +44 151 795 4267 Fax: +44 151 795 4235 E-mail: ivb@liv.ac.uk http: //www.csc.liv.ac.uk/~ivb 
