 Danushka Bollegala Navigation About CV Teaching Back Teaching Data Mining Publications Projects Members function unhide(divID) { var item = document.getElementById(divID); if (item) { item.className=(item.className=='hidden')?'unhidden':'hidden'; } } Danushka Bollegala Professor Department of Computer Science, The University of Liverpool. RM 224, Ashton Building, Ashton Street, Liverpool, L69 3BX, UK. Phone: +44-1517954283 Mail: danushka (dot) bollegala (atmark) liverpool.ac.uk Google Map I am Danushka Bollegala, Professor in Natural Language Processing at the Department of Computer Science , The University of Liverpool , United Kingdom. See my short vita . I lead the Data Mining and Machine Learning (DMML) Research Group and the Natural Language Processing Group . I am also a member of the Institute for Risk and Uncertainty of the University of Liverpool, and Global Research Center for Big Data Mathematics National Institute of Informatics (NII) , and a full-member of the Engineering and Physical Science Research Council's (EPSRC) Peer Review College . I hold visiting fellowships at School of Informatics at University of Sussex and National Institute of Informatics . I am an Amazon Scholar and a senior fellow at Cookpad . My research interests are Artificial Intelligence, Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning. I am particularly interested in how the meaning of words and sentences used by humans can be represented in a format that could be understood by machines such as computers or robots. This subfield of AI is called natural language processing (NLP). I have worked in a wide-range of problems in NLP see here and my publications . I teach Data Mining and Visualisation (COMP 527) , a masters-level module taught at the University of Liverpool. Details about my current/past students/post-docs are here . I have experience in industrial collaborations in the form of startups, knowledge transfer partnerships and consultancies. If you are interested in collaborations please contact. News Four papers accepted to COLING-18 from Liverpool-NLP Group Two papers accepted to NAACL-18 and another two accepted to *SEM. Cookpad cooking skill evaluation project is in news! Tweets by Bollegala Books written by me Copyright Reserved: Danushka Bollegala 
