 Clare Dixon Background I gained a B.Sc. (Hons) Degree in Mathematics and Management Sciences in 1986 from the University of Hull . Then I taught mathematics in a rural secondary school Zimbabwe for two and a half years. On my return in 1989 I worked as a software engineer for a company producing software for manufacturing industry until 1991. Returning to education I joined the Department of Computer Science at the University of Manchester and obtained an M.Sc. Degree in Systems Design in 1992, and a Ph.D. in Computer Science in 1995. I joined the Department of Computing and Mathematics at the Manchester Metropolitan University in December 1995, as a Research Fellow on the project Proof Methods for Temporal Logics of Knowledge and Belief. In August 1997 I was appointed as a Senior Research Fellow (also known as a Research Lecturer). I was appointed Lecturer in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Liverpool in January 2001. I was promoted to Senior Lecturer in October 2004 and Reader in December 2016. Research Interests My research interests include verification of robot and autonomous systems, specification and verification of systems, theorem-proving for temporal and modal and agent logics. I am a member of the Robotics and Autonomous Systems research group. I was the group leader from 2015-2017. Details of group meetings . I am a member of the Verification research group. Details of verification group meetings . Here are details of projects I am or have been associated with. Current projects are listed below. Future AI and Robotics for Space (FAIR-SPACE) Robotics and AI in Nuclear (RAIN) Science of Sensor Systems Software A PhD Studentship is available related to this project. This PhD studentship is still open. Trustworthy Robotic Assistants . Verification of Swarm Robotic Systems . I am a member of the Centre for Autonomous Systems Technology , the Autonomy and Verification Laboratory , and the Institute for Risk and Uncertainty . PhD Students Current PhD/MPhil students include the following:- Paul Gainer Farah Al-Shareefi I am happy to consider suggestions for PhD projects within my areas of interest. A PhD Studentship related to the Science of Sensor Systems Software project is available. Some potential PhD projects in other areas are described below here . I have supervised (and examined) several PhD students who have now completed their studies. Activities Present activities include the following and past activities are also available. Member of the programme committee for The 12th International Symposium on Frontiers of Combining Systems (FroCoS 2019) Middlesex University, London, September 4-6, 2019 Member of the programme committee for International Conference on Automated Reasoning with Analytic Tableaux and Related Methods (Tableaux 2019) , London, UK September 3-5 2019 Member of the programme committee for Conference on Automated Deduction (CADE 2019) , Natal, Brazil, 25-30 August 2019, Member of the programme committee for Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence Macao, China August 10-16 2019 Invited lecturer at the Spring School on Computer-Assisted Assurance (CyPhyAssure) 19th-22nd March 2019, University of York, UK I am a member of the steering committee for the International Symposium on the Frontiers of Combining Systems (FroCoS) I am a member of the steering committee for the Time International Symposium Series . I am a member of the BSI Standards Committee, AMT/010 Robotics I am a member of the EPSRC Peer Review College Publications Teaching Currently I teach the following module. COMP525 Reasoning About Action and Change Administration I am the Department's Director of Postgraduate Research. Information for PhD/MPhil students Information for PhD/MPhil Supervisors I am a member of the following committees and groups. Faculty PGR Committee Department of Computer Science PGR Staff Student Liaison Committee School PGR Progress Committee Faculty PGR Progress Committee School Peer Review Group University Peer Review College University ULTRA mentor I am external examiner for the MSc programmes in Computing at the University of Dundee Contact Details Clare Dixon Department of Computer Science, The Ashton Building, The University of Liverpool, Liverpool, L69 3BX, United Kingdom Office: room 111, first floor, the Ashton Building email CLDixon [at] liv [dot] ac [dot] uk tel (+44 1 51) 795 4280 fax (+44 1 51) 795 4235 
