If you are interested in Blockchain research, please feel free to contact Shinichiro.Matsuo@georgetown.edu. Presentation slides at Grad Student orientation is here. I am a research scientist in cryptography and information security. I am working on maturing Blockchain technology from the academia side and presents research results on Blockchain security. At Georgetown University, I direct the Blockchain Technology and Ecosystem Design (B-TED) research center and lead multi-disciplinary research among technology, economy, law, and regulation. I founded BSafe.network, which is the neutral international research test network for Blockchain to promote applied academic research in blockchain technologies. It is international actual network with 27 international universities and acts the same role as NSFNet for the Internet. I also founded CELLOS consortium, the international consortium for security evaluation of cryptographic protocol and serve as the head of its technical working group for securing cryptographic protocol like TLS. I lead international research collaboration on Blockchain with BSafe.network and by founding BASE (Blockchain Academic Synergized Environment) alliance with the University of Tokyo and Keio University. I am a part of many program committees on Blockchain technology and information security, and a program co-chair of Scaling Bitcoin 2018 Tokyo. I serve as the leader of security standardization project of Blockchain (ISO TC307). Previously I served as the head of Japanese national body of ISO/IEC JTC1 SC27/WG2 for cryptographic techniques, a member of advisory board cryptographic technology for the Japanese government. PhD in Computer Science, 2003 Tokyo Institution of Technology MEng in Computer Science, 1996 Tokyo Institution of Technology BSc in Computer Science, 1994 Tokyo Institution of Technology More Publications More Talks AsiaCrypt,RFIDSec Asia, IWSEC, Indocrypt, ACISP, Information Security Conference (ISC), IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, IEICE transactions of fundamentals, IT Transactions, International Journal of Information Security, Journal of Information Procession Society of Japan 2017 Shinichiro Matsuo Powered by the Academic theme for Hugo. 
