 Dr Valentina Tamma I am a lecturer at the Department of Computer Science , University of Liverpool . I am the programme director for all the Undergraduate Degree Programmes with a Year in Industry. My research interests lie in the area of Ontologies in open and distributed environments, such as Multi-Agent systems, Semantic Web and Grid environments. My research is about understanding how systems, services, and devices can work intelligently with each other within an dynamic or transient environment. More details about this work can be found in the Knowledge-Based Agents page. Within this context. I am interested in the use of Artificial Intelligence methods in order to investigate mechanisms for dynamic knowledge evolution and adaptation; i.e. how agents can dynamically establish common grounds for communication, and once they have achieved consensus on the ontology to use how this commitment can cause changes to the agents knowledge, and possibly in turn to its beliefs. In this context I am investigating Ontology design, ontology management, semantic integration, ontology evolution, and knowledge acquisition. I have authored several papers in the areas of Ontologies and Knowledge Sharing, Formal ontologies, and Knowledge Management, and I have been involved in a number of EU and UK projects on these topics. During OWLED 2014 was elected on the OWLED steering committee, that is responsible for carrying out policy determined at the OWLED business meetings and otherwise assisting the organizers of the OWLED workshops . I was general chair of OWLED 2015 and I am Programme Co-Chair for the Resources Track at ISWC 2017 My partner in crime, Terry Payne Research Interests 1. Ontology engineering 2. Ontology reconciliation in agent/service environments 3. Cognitive aspects of ontology engineering Room 2.12 Department of Computer Science University of Liverpool Liverpool L69 3BX, UK tel: +44 151 795 4246 fax: +44 151 795 4235 email: V.Tamma_at_liverpool.ac.uk skype: valentinatamma Publications Activities Degrees with a Year in Industry Teaching Contact 
