 Home Publications Research Students Teaching Awards & Media smARTLab Contact Home Publications Research Students Teaching Awards & Media smARTLab Contact Karl Tuyls Professor of Computer Science Karl Tuyls Professor of Computer Science Home Publications Research Students Teaching Awards & Media smARTLab Contact Home I have joinedGoogle DeepMind in London fulltime as a Research Scientist, and I also hold a professorship of Computer Science at the university of Liverpool. You can reach me atkarltuyls_@_google.com or you can still reach me at k.tuyls_@_liverpool.ac.uk. Welcome at my website. I work as a professor of computer science at the university of Liverpool , School of Electrical Engineering, Electronics, and Computer Science , Department of Computer Science , UK since September 30th 2013. I amcurrently director of research of the school of Electrical Engineering & Electronics and Computer Science. I am also a member of both the Robotics and Autonomous Systems and the Data Mining and Machine Learning research groups within the Artificial Intelligencesection. Before this I was a member and head of the Agent ART group.Additionally, I founded and lead the smARTLab robotics laboratory, part of the department of computer science. My research interests span the areas of multi-agent systems, robotics, swarm intelligence, reinforcement learning, deep learning and evolutionary game theory.From 2014-2017 I wasalso a part-time professor of Bio-Inspired Robotics and Autonomous Systems at the Delft Center for Systems and Control , Faculty of Mechanical Engineering and Systems , Delft University of Technology .Previously I held positions at Vrije Universiteit Brussel (phd student, postdoc), Hasselt University (postdoc), Eindhoven University of Technology (assistant professor) and Maastricht University (associate and full professor). For more details see my cv. News Our paper in Scientific Reports (Nature) was published in January 2018. I will give an invited talk at IDC 2017 Senior PC member of IJCAI17 We are organising the ACAI 2017 summer school on Reinforcement Learning; more updates follow soon. Senior PC member of IJCAI16 Program co-chair of AAMAS 2016 I am a fellow of BCS (British Computer Society) Clare Dixon and I are program co-chairs of TAROS 2015 to be held in Liverpool September 8th September 10th 2015. Senior PC member of IJCAI15 . Home Publications Research Students Teaching Awards & Media smARTLab Contact 
