 Home Publications CV Louise Dennis Potential PhD: I am currently offering a funded PhD place in Assurance of Machine Learning Enabled Systems . Please email me if you are interested or apply. Louise Dennis is a lecturer in the Autonomy and Verification Laboratory at the University of Liverpool. She is attached to the Centre for Autonomous Systems Technology (CAST) at the University of Liverpool. Her background is in artificial intelligence and more specifically in agent and autonomous systems and automated reasoning. She has worked on the development of several automated reasoning and theorem proving tools, most notably the Agent JPF model checker for BDI agent languages; the lambda-clam proof planning system ; and the PROSPER Toolkit for integrating an interactive theorem prover (HOL) with automated reasoning tools (such as SAT solvers) and Case/CAD tools. More recently she has investigated rational agent programming languages and architectures for autonomous systems, with a particular emphasis on creating verifiable systems. Two satellites cooperate to explore an asteroid field, using a verifiable agent architecture for decision-making. An output from the Engineering Autonomous Space Software project. Address Louise Dennis Department of Computer Science Room G22 Ashton Building University of Liverpool L.A.Dennis@liverpool.ac.uk Research Groups, Centres and Labs Autonomy and Verification Laboratory Centre for Autonomous Systems Technology Virtual Engineering Centre Robotics and Autonomous Systems Group (Liverpool) Verification Group (Liverpool) Mathematical Reasoning Group (Edinburgh) Research Projects Robotics and AI for Nuclear (2018-2021) Future AI and Robotics for Space (2018-2021) Verifiable Autonomy (2014-2018) Reconfigurable Autonomy (2012-2014) Engineering Autonomous Space Software (2008-2012) Model Checking Agent Programming Languages (2006-2008) Links Lego Rovers (Public Engagement Activity) Official University Page Personal Page Contact: Louise Dennis . Design by FreeCSSTemplates.org . 
