 Ana Luca Garca Pulido Homepage Homepage I am a postdoc working with Dr. Vitaliy Kurlin in the Topological Data Analysis group at the University of Liverpool . Recently I worked as a consultant Data Scientist at Academic Work Finland in an Artificial Intelligence start-up. In 2016 I completed a postdoctoral fellowship at the Centre of Research in Mathematics (CIMAT) in Guanajuato. In the summer of 2013 I finished a PhD in Mathematics at the University of Warwick. My mathematical research interests lie broadly in algebraic topology and geometry. Currently my main research focus is in topological data analysis. During my PhD I worked in string topology. In my postdoc, I worked in differential geometry, specifically in Spin geometry. I am also interested in index theories and elliptic cohomology. I am interested in solving problems in Data Science. My projects, some of which are work in progress, can be found in GitHub. Publications Arizmendi G., Garcia Pulido A. L., Herrera R. A note on the geometry and topology of almost even-Clifford manifolds . Quarterly Journal of Mathematics, Volume 69, Issue 1, 1 March 2018, Pages 321-376, Oxford University Press. Garcia Pulido A. L., Herrera R. Rigidity and vanishing theorems for almost even-Clifford Hermitian manifolds . SIGMA 13, (2017), 027, 28 pages Garcia Pulido A. L., Models and string topology , 2012, Ph.D. Thesis, University of Warwick. Preprints Garcia Pulido A. L., Herrera R. Decompositions of spin representations with respect to normalisers of spin subalgebras of low rank . In preparation: new progress has been made from late 2017 to the present. 24 pages, 2015 version Garcia Pulido A. L., Jones J. D. S. Models and String Homology . Preprint Ana Luca Garca Pulido Ana Luca Garca Pulido winsy17@gmail.com winsy17 I am a postdoc at the University of Liverpool. In 2016 completed a postdoctoral fellowship at the Centre of Research in Mathematics (CIMAT) in Guanajuato. In the summer of 2013 I finished my PhD at the University of Warwick under the supervision of Prof. John Jones. 
