 Nick Feamster Home Bio Projects Team Papers Teaching Nick Feamster Professor, Department of Computer Science Associated Faculty, School of Public Affairs Deputy Director, Center for Information Technology Policy Princeton University CV Sherrerd Hall Room 310 feamster -at- cs . princeton . edu + 1 609 258 2203 (no voicemail, please) News 23 Aug 2018 Arpit Gupta presented our work on Sonata at SIGCOMM 19 Aug 2018 Trisha Datta presented our work on IoT privacy at SIGCOMM 19 Aug 2018 Frank Li presented our work on IoT security at SIGCOMM 16 Aug 2018 Annie Edmundson presented our work on Tor onion usability at USENIX Security 14 Aug 2018 Austin Hounsel presented our work on censorship block lists at USENIX Security 18 July 2018 I presented our work on Oblivious DNS to the IETF DPRIVE Working Group My research applies an empirical, data-driven approach to understand and improve network performance, security, and privacy. I measure and study Internet phenomena. I design, develop, and deploy protocols and systems that make the Internet work better for users. IoT Security and Privacy The devices that we connect to the network are fundamentally insecure, and they are increasing and collecting private user data. My research develops network-based, data-driven techniques to protect user security and privacy, with a focus on smart homes. More Info Censorship and Information Control Countries around the world are increasingly developing mechanisms to control their citizens' access to information online, through a combination of protocol filtering, control of online platforms and infrastructure, and the spread of disinformation. My research measures information control and manipulation on a large-scale and develops mechanisms to help users gain better access to information. More Info Access Network Performance From web browsing to video streaming, access network performance affects user experience. My research studies fixed and mobile broadband access network performance, and how performance bottlenecks from a user's home wireless network to ISP interconnection ultimately affect a user's quality of experience. More Info Copyright Nick Feamster 2018 
