 Brian Kernighan Department of Computer Science Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08544 bwk cs princeton edu Millions, Billions, Zillions: Defending Yourself in a World of Too Many Numbers . With examples drawn from a rich variety of sources, including journalism, advertising, and politics, the book demonstrates how numbers can mislead and misrepresent. In chapters covering big numbers, units, dimensions, and more, it lays bare everything from deceptive graphs to speciously precise numbers, and shows how anyone -- using a few basic ideas and lots of shortcuts -- can easily learn to recognize common mistakes, determine whether numbers are credible, and make their own sensible estimates when needed. An essential survival guide for a world drowning in big -- and often bad -- data. Published by Princeton University Press in November, 2018. Available at Amazon . Translations into Korean, Chinese (PRC) and Japanese are underway. Understanding the Digital World: What You Need to Know about Computers, the Internet, Privacy, and Security explains how computer hardware, software, networks, and systems work. It includes enough detail that you can understand how these systems work, no matter what your technical background. The social, political and legal issues that new technology creates are discussed as well, so you can understand the difficult issues we face and appreciate the tradeoffs that have to be made to resolve them. Published by Princeton University Press . Now available at Amazon and other booksellers in both hardback and e-book form. Korean translation (August 2017, translated by Sungchang Ha); Chinese translation (March 2018, translated by ) The Go Programming Language , by Alan Donovan and Brian Kernighan. Book web site www.gopl.io . Available in paperback and e-book formats. Japanese, Chinese (Traditional), Russian, Korean, Portuguese and Polish translations are now available; Simplified Chinese will be available soon. Research Document preparation archaeology (updated Dec 13, 2013) AMPL modeling language for mathematical optimization Teaching COS 109, Fall 2018 COS 333, Spring 2018 Independent work and senior theses advice on independent work letters of recommendation Study Abroad FAQ Publications Bibliography Book home pages Million, Billions, Zillions Understanding the Digital World The Go Programming Language D is for Digital AMPL: A Modeling Language for Mathematical Programming The Practice of Programming The C Programming Language Original site, now seriously outdated The Unix Programming Environment The AWK Programming Language Daily Princetonian columns . Also available as a Kindle ebook . Erds-Bacon Number Parallel Universe mirror of Bell Labs home page from long ago Dennis Ritchie's home page at Bell Labs NAE Memorial Tribute for Dennis Ritchie Bell Labs 1127 alumni Bell Labs Research in 1995: (10 MB in 4 images) 1 2 3 4 Tue Jan 8 11:45:31 EST 2019 
