 Andrea S. LaPaugh Professor, Department of Computer Science, e-mail: aslp at cs dot dot edu phone: (609) 258-4568 fax: (609) 258-1771 US Mail: Dept. of Computer Science 35 Olden St. Princeton University Princeton, NJ 08540 Princeton University Research Areas Information Discovery for large-scale digital collections Today's extremely large collections of digital information present problems in the management, retrieval, and analysis of information. The Web is particularly a problem because anyone and everyone can put (good and bad) information on the Web. How can the providers of search and data organization services do better in providing relevant and trustworthy information? What new information can be gleaned from digital collections through their structure and interrelationships? How can the information from social networks be used to enhance the analysis of information? The research to find answers to these questions has both a strong algorithm design component and a strong systems component, the latter stemming from the need for distributed computing methods to efficiently work with the huge amount of data being created. Computer-Aided Design (CAD) of Digital Systems Professor LaPaugh has worked extensively in the development of algorithms for problems in digital design. A major area of research has been VLSI circuit layout: investigating the interactions between placement and detailed routing. She has developed algorithms that use these interactions to find better placements for circuit components. An important application of the work is in the placement of hierarchically defined layouts. Another focus of Professor LaPaugh's research has been in the synthesis and verification of digital systems from high-level descriptions. One project in this area was the representation and verification of timing requirements for asynchronous digital systems. Another was the scheduling of program iterations on hardware (software pipelining). Professor LaPaugh has explored the relationship between techniques used by hardware synthesis and program compilation. Many issues are shared by compiler writers for multi-issue machines and synthesis tool writers for special-purpose hardware. Algorithm Foundations Much of Professor LaPaugh's work is based on the principles of combinatorial algorithm design. In addition to her work in application areas, she has developed and analyzed algorithms for theoretical combinatorial problems such as graph structure problems. Recent Teaching COS 435: Information Retrieval, Discovery, and Delivery, spring 2012 - 2016 COS 597: Principles of Database and Information Systems , fall 2011, fall 2013 FRS 125: Freshman seminar "Friending, Following & Finding", fall 2012 COS 126: General Computer Science: An Interdisciplinary Approach, preceptor fall 2014, fall 2015 COS IW01: Junior/Senior Independent Work Seminar: Analyzing relationship networks: social networks and beyond, fall2015 of general interest: Resources for Projects in Information Retrieval, Data Mining and Complex Network Analysis Works Selected Publications Ph.D. dissertations advised last updated Mon Jul 25 16:44:18 EDT 2016 
