 Wyatt Lloyd About Me Research Publications Teaching Acknowledgments Distributed Systems Professor SVE to appear at SOSP '17! Chess appeared at ATC '17! Occult appeared at NSDI '17! I co-lead the S* Network Systems (SNS) group with Mike Freedman in the CS department at Princeton. I also co-advise two students with Ethan Katz-Bassett in an initiative to specialize distributed systems and networking for large applications deployed in datacenters. I am interested in the theory, design, implementation, evaluation, and deployment of large-scale distributed systems. Keywords like big data, storage, consistency, geo-replication, consensus, concurrency control, and fault tolerance pique my interest. One of my research directions looks at the tradeoffs between the guarantees and performance properties of distributed systems. Guarantees like consistency and transactional abilities make systems easier to reason about and program against. Performance properties like latency and throughput affect end user experience and the capital cost of systems. We're exploring what combinations of power and performance are and aren't possible. The SNOW Theorem , Janus , and Occult are our most recent work in this area, which also includes Existential Consistency , Consistency Challenges , Rococo , Eiger , and COPS . Another of my research directions looks at understanding and improving media processing, storage, and delivery at massive scale. RIPQ and extensions from deploying it in practice at Facebook described in this blog post are our most recent published work in this area, which also includes f4 and a study of the Facebook photo caching stack . Most of this work focused on photos, and we're currently exploring the new challenges posed by videos. Wyatt Lloyd Assistant Professor Princeton University wlloyd@princeton.edu All of this research is made possible by my fantastic students: Current Students PhD Haonan Lu Khiem Ngo Chris Hodsdon e Theano Stavrinos e Zhenyu Song k Jeffrey Helt MS Jennifer Lam Undergrad Noah Beattie-Moss (2019) Facebook Vignesh Rajendran (2019) Parker Wild (2019) Scholar in the Nation's Service Fellow Audrey Cheng (2020) Past Students MS Mohsin Ali e (USC 2016) Facebook Abhinav Sharma (USC 2016) Facebook Jamie Tsao e (USC 2016) Google Undergrad Yousif Aldolaijan (USC) Sam Thomas (Cornell, USC visitor) Roberto Gonzalez (East LA College, USC visitor) Cal Poly Pomona Matt Burke (USC 2017) Cornell PhD Program Trevor Cai (USC 2017) DeepMind/Alphabet Brian Goodchild e (RU-Camden 2017, USC visitor) Columbia PhD Program Chris Hodsdon (RU-Camden 2016, USC visitor) Princeton PhD Program Cary Jiang Rice Undergrad I am also privileged to work closely with other great students including: Zahaib Aktar (USC PhD) Jose M. Faleiro (Yale PhD) Linpeng Tang (Princeton PhD) Co-founder and CTO of Moqi, Inc. S.Akbar Mehdi (UT Austin PhD) Xing Xu (USC PhD 2017) Google Shuai Mu (Tsinghua PhD 2015) NYU PostDoc Assistant Professor at Stony Brook 
