 Olga Russakovsky Home Say hi Assistant Professor Department of Computer Science Princeton University [ Lab ] [ CV ] [ Bio ] [ Scholar ] [ AI4ALL ] [ Say hi ] About I am interested in developing artificial intelligent systems that are able to reason about the visual world. My primary research area is computer vision , closely integrated with machine learning and human-computer interaction . I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science . I am also affiliated faculty at the Center for Statistics and Machine Learning and the Center for Information Technology Policy . Research Please visit the Visual AI Lab page for a list of publications, project descriptions, lab members and other information. Some representative talks: "Computer vision meets fairness," CVPR 2018 workshops [ slides ] "Towards Web-scale Video Understanding," CVPR 2017 WebVision workshop [ slides ] "The Human Side of Computer Vision," Feb - Aug 2016. [ slides , videos for slides ] "Scaling Up Object Detection," Jan 2015 - Jan 2016. [ slides ] "ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge (ILSVRC)" [ video from NVIDIA's GTC 2015 ] [ video from Bay Area Vision Meeting 2013 ] [ slides pptx , slides pdf , focusing on ILSVRC history] Teaching I am teaching two courses this academic year, both new : Fall 2018. COS 597B: Advanced Topics in CS: Computer Vision Research Skills Spring 2019. COS 529: Advanced Computer Vision Outreach I spend a lot of time thinking about how we as a society got ourselves into such a diversity crisis in computer science, and how we can get ourselves out of it. Some of my views are briefly summarized in this MIT Technology Review article . Also: AI4ALL is a foundation I co-founded in 2016 to create a diverse future generation of AI technologists. Stanford AI4ALL (formerly SAILORS) is a program that I co-founded in 2015 to educate high school girls about AI. [ Wired article ] [ SIGCSE 2016 publication ] Princeton AI4ALL is a camp I co-founded in 2018 for high school students from underrepresented racial/ethnic groups. If you are interested in helping out with that, please say hi . Random tidbits One of the most useful books I ever read is Stress-Free For Good byFred Luskin and Kenneth R. Pelletier.It makes a really solid point that while mental stress may be helpful for motivation, physical stress (heart pounding, muscles tightening, sinking feeling in your stomach) is strictly counter-productive on every level -- except when you're running from an actual physical tiger, which you probably aren't. So the book describes some straight-forwardtechniques to trick your body into being less physically stressed. A 2015 study published in Science and extensively covered bythe media led by Sarah-Jane Leslie found that scientific fields where innate brilliance is believed to be required tend to attract fewer women and racial minorities. This is an incredibly important but deeply distressing finding. It's particularly frustrating since innate brilliance is not even really a thing. For example, check out Peak: Secrets from the New Science of Expertise by Anders Ericsson which essentially invalidates this concept entirely. It summarizes several decades of research into how the right type of practice can be used to develop almost any skill. Home Say hi 
