Daniel M. Berry's Home Page	Daniel M. Berry's Home Page	Daniel M. Berry	For a higher resolution, much larger version, of the same	For a larger older picture	For an even larger older picture	For a huge picture	For the previous main picture	For the previous, previous main picture	For the previous, previous, previous main picture	Daniel M. Berry's Current Affiliation	University of Waterloo	Cheriton School of Computer Science	Contents of This Page	Research in Software Engineering, Requirements Engineering, and Electronic Publishing	Handbook of ambiguities in requirements specifications and legal contracts	Education and brief biography	Full resume, on-line copies	Bibliography, including reprints and on-line copies	Lectures that I am willing to come and give	Teaching, courses that I have taught and that I am teaching	Reaching and finding me at work and at home	Hobbies	Thanksgiving turkey, why we eat turkey on Thanksgiving	NOW INVALID:	Where to get GOOD, genuine New York bagels in Kitchener-Waterloo	Biblical commentary I have written	My contribution to The Annals of Improbable Research's Universal History Translation Project	My advice on how to avoid jet lag	My advice on how to finish your Ph.D.	Me in Full Academic Regalia at a PhD Defense in Europe	Caricatures that have been drawn of me	About my hearing and why I do not speak Hebrew	Directions to Haifa and the Technion	For old time's sake, my old .plan file	Research in Software Engineering, Requirements	Engineering, and Electronic Publishing	I conduct and supervise research in Software Engineering	including the following topics:	Inevitable Pain of Software Development	Requirements Engineering	Understanding Roles in Requirements	Engineering	Importance of Ignorance and the Role of an Ignoramus in	Requirements Engineering	House Building as a Metaphor for Software	Engineering	Emotions, Values, and Beliefs in	Requirements Engineering	The Customer's Role in Requirements Engineering	Empirical Observations of Requirements Engineering	Natural Language in Requirements Engineering	Abstraction Identification	Ambiguity in Natural Language Requirements	Specifications	The Dangerous ``All'' in Natural Language Requirements	Specifications	User's Manuals as Requirements Specifications	Multimedia Hypermedia Requirements Identification	Protyping to Requirements	Requirements Engineering of Software for the Handicapped	Electronic Publishing	Multi-Lingual Text Processing	Dynamic Fonts for Typesetting Calligraphy, especially for	Arabic, Hebrew, Persian, and Urdu	WYSIWYG-Batch Pic and the Evaluation	of its User-Interface	ASCII Server for Windowed Applications	Bi-Directional VIM for Arabic, Hebrew, Persian, and Urdu	Look at explanations, research and thesis	topics, and goals.	As part of this research, I participate in one international organization:	International Federation for Information Processing (IFIP) Working Group	(WG) 2.9, Requirements Engineering	My research is done as part of more than one laboratory at Waterloo:	Computer Systems Group	Software Engineering Laboratory	To see URLs of research related Web sites:	I am on the editorial boards of:	Requirements Engineering Journal published by Springer-Verlag	Empirical Software Engineering Journal published by Springer-Verlag	Science of Computer Programming published by Springer-Verlag	I maintain the website of the	RE (International Requirements Engineering Conference) series.	The current instantiation of this series:	27th IEEE International Requirements Engineering Conference,	23 -- 27 September 2019,	Jeju Island, South Korea	Handbook of Ambiguities in Requirements Specifications and Legal Contracts	Two computer scientists (Erik Kamsties and I) and one lawyer--computer	scientist (Mickey Krieger) have written	``From Contract Drafting to	Software Specification: Linguistic Sources of Ambiguity, A Handbook''.	This handbook is intended to be a living document. We invite comments,	additional examples, etc. from readers. If you wish to provide	translations of the examples into equally ambiguous sentences in other	languages, please contact me (just to make sure that someone else is	not already doing it!). As we get these translations, we shall add	them to the original document or make them available as separate	documents or both!	Education and Brief Biography	Ph.D., Computer Science, Brown University, 1974	B.S., Mathematics, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 1969	A Brief Biography	Full resume	Full Resume in PDF form	Bibliography	Published Papers (Hard-Copy Reprints Available for Some	and On-Line Copies Available for Some)	Erik Kamsties and I have written a chapter titled ``Ambiguity in	Requirements Specification'' in a book, edited by Julio Leite and Jorge	Doorn, titled	Perspectives on Software Requirements,	published by Kluwer,	with table of contents	.	Lectures	I give a number of socko lectures that are guaranteed to enliven an	audience and to knock everyone's socks off. If you want me to give one	of these and are willing to pay my travel expenses and a modest honorarium,	send e-mail to	me	to make arrangements. See the	abstracts of possible lectures to	help choose one.	The three most popular these days are	``The Inevitable Pain of Software Development: Why	There Is No Silver Bullet'',	``Formal Methods, the Very Idea, Some	Thoughts'',	and	``Requirements Engineering Lessons from	House Building''. These are based on papers that I have written, which	you can find by searching for the words ``The Inevitable Pain of Software	Development'', ``Formal Methods, the Very Idea,	Some Thoughts on Why They Work When They Work'', ``Creep'', and	``Adventures'' (there are several versions of the first two) in	the bibliography.	One of my sets of slides have been made public, with my permission, by	WeberDev.com.	You might want to look at them.	Better yet, you might want me	to come to deliver these slides in person; they are so much better	in person.	It has been said that I am very energetic during my lectures, that	I move around a lot during my ``dance'' routine. At CMU's SEI,	they were videotaping whole courses as I taught them. I was told that	following my dancing around wore out several video camera servo	mechanisms and that following my dancing with the camera	was good training for televising hockey games	with their fast moving pucks. You might wish to see three ``still'' photos	of me giving a lecture at PUC in Rio de Janeiro, taken on 1 August 2003 by	Leonardo Cunha. In the	first, my hand and mouth are a blur,	in the	second, my arm is a blur, and	in the	third,	I am in a rare quiescent state.	Teaching	Technion:	MATAM--Introduction to	System Programming (Winter 1996)	Software Engineering Methods (Spring 1997)	Seminar: Electronic Publishing (Spring 1997)	Seminar: Requirements Engineering (Winter 1997)	Seminar: Full Year SE Lab: Requirements Engineering of WD-PIC (Winter 1997)	Waterloo:	Software Abstraction and Specification (CS246) (Spring 2000)	( Permanent Course	Web Page)	Software	Requirements and Specification (ECE451/CS445/CS645)	Software	Requirements and Specification (SE463)	Social Implications	of Computing (CS492/CS692)	Advanced Topics in Requirements	Engineering (CS846)	Advanced Topics in Electronic	Publishing (CS846)	Reaching Me	Work Address	Cheriton School of Computer Science	University of Waterloo,	200 University Ave. West	Waterloo, Ontario N2L 3G1	Canada	None: I do not hear well enough to hear on the phone;	so faxing or e-mailing me is better)	fax: +1-519-888-4305 (or if that does not work, then try +1-519-746-5422)	e-mail	address	My office is where?	My office is 3329 Davis Centre. This room is in the Computer Systems	Group suite, which is on the third floor, just above the Cheriton School of	Computer Science's main office on the second floor.	Home Address	11-522 Beechwood Drive	Waterloo, Ontario N2T 2G9	Canada	Directions to my house assuming that you	are already in Waterloo	telefax: 1-519-885-7222	I do not hear well enought to hear on the phone. Therefore, even if I am at	home, I do not answer the phone unless I am expecting your	call at the time of the call. Regardless of what the answering machine	says, do not leave a recorded message for me . Instead,	send me a fax over the same line or send me	e-mail	Hobbies	My hobbies are skiing, skating, swimming,	Star Trek, cooking, and reading Mad Magazine,	Annals of Improbable Research, and about Cosmology.	Thanksgiving Turkey	A scholarly paper on why North American folk eat turkey on Thanksgiving Day	(PDF/Acrobat form)	A scholarly lecture on why North American folk eat turkey on Thanksgiving Day	(PDF/Acrobat form)	An alternative explanation of the origins of the U.S. Thanksgiving. Enjoy!	A well-researched article about the many names of the turkey and why, in	any place, it tended to be named as a bird from another place. It covers	many of the same names that my article does. It does reveal	something of which I was not aware, that the bird originated in	Mexico. Wow, and not one place has named the bird ``Mexican Bird''.	Also, in this article, the bird is eaten for Christmas. Enjoy!	NO LONGER VALID:	Where to Get GOOD, Genuine New York Bagels in Kitchener-Waterloo	I am sad to report that the store mentioned below went out of	business at the end of April 2015, after 35 years in business.	A letter to the local newspaper in October 2000 about the Best Bagel in	Kitchener-Waterloo, Rise and Shine Bagels at 52 Bridgeport East, Waterloo,	which is open Fridays and Saturdays 7:30am--2:00pm	A LiVEJOURNAL discussion on bagels in Kitchener-Waterloo.	An article by Jennifer Ormston in the 26 December 2007 issue of Waterloo	Chronicle Business section on Rise and Shine Bagel. I agree with	Brian's assessment that the bagels available in supermarkets and other	stores are no replacement for his New York style bagels.	Biblical Commentary	I have written and published some biblical commentary, titled	``Understanding the Beginning of Genesis: Just How Many Beginnings	Were There?'' in the	Jewish Bible	Quarterly 31:2, pp. 90--93 (2003). Unfortunately, the	article is not available online. However, you can send e-mail to	me	for a reprint.	A larger technical report (excuse the CS-ese) from which the published	paper is derived is available in	PDF/Acrobat form or in	compressed PS form.	The published paper covers up through the end of the section titled ``A	Semantic Solution''.	The Annals of Improbable Research's Universal History Translation Project	My contribution to the	The Annals of Improbable Research's Universal History Translation Project	was to coordinate and participate in the translation of the	The History of the Universe in 200 Words or Less into	Hebrew. This job was tricky because in English, with rare	exceptions, one of which (``Metals Injection'') is in this document,	construct forms, e.g., ``hair	cut'' use the singular form of the noun regardless of whether, e.g., all or	only one hair is cut. In the Hebrew construct form, one must use a singular	or plural noun as is required by the meaning. Thus, we had to clarify	with Eric Schulman, the author of the English document, the intent of all	of the construct forms, except for the exception mentioned above.	My Advice on How to Avoid Jet Lag	The anti-jet lag program that I follow, which	is my modification of the Argonne National Labs Anti-Jet Lag Program	My Advice on How to Finish your Ph.D.	My famous lecture giving advice on how to finish that damn Ph.D.	(PDF/Acrobat form)	If you want to invite me to give this talk, I will be happy to come.	Here is an abstract for announcing it.	I have read two books that describe the kinds of thinking and the kinds of	behaviors that I think are very helpful in someone who is seeking to earn a	PhD.	Why?: What Makes Us Curious by Mario Livio	describes the kind of curiosity that helps find PhD topics. Actually,	it describes the kind of curiosity that drives one to doing research which	can very naturally and very easily be worthy of a PhD. Livio has other	relevant books that are recommended at the same site.	Failure: Why Science Is So Successful by Stuart Firestein	describes an attitude about one's own incomplete knowledge and	mistakes that is necessary to be able to not get discouraged when research	leads to a dead end, as it often does.	You might wish to look also at lecture slides by Dave Patterson advising on a	research or academic career that is one follow-on to getting a Ph.D.	The title is ``How to Have a Bad Career In Research/Academia''	You might wish to look also at lecture slides by Steve Easterbrook	about how to write a Ph.D. dissertation.	The title is ``How Theses Get Written: Some Cool Tips''	You might wish to look also at a whole collection of references to	advice about doing research and related activities, gathered by Silvia Miksch.	The titles are	``How to Do Research'',	``How to Write a Scientific Paper'',	``How to Present a Scientific Paper'',	``Tips on Organizing Conferences, Workshops, and Symposia'',	``How to Review'',	``Digitial Libaries'',	``Tips for Writing Correct English'',	``University Ranking'', and	``Additional Hints''.	You might wish to look also at a 1972 rejection letter from the	Communications of the ACM for one of Ben Shneiderman's first	submissions. Ben survived and went on to be one of the most famous and	prolific researchers in HCI. The site gives some advice on dealing with	such brutal rejection letters.	You might wish to look at the PhD Comics, by Jorge Cham, for a thorough,	but comic exploration of the phenomemon of procrastination among graduate	students, Ph.D. students in particular.	Matt Might has ``The Illustrated Guide to a Ph.D.'' that clearly explains	in pictures exactly how much impact one Ph.D. has on all of human	knowledge. This explanation should help any Ph.D. candidate understand the	true scope of his or her work and thus to realistically judge the size of	the work.	Here is an article that reviews what's involved in pursuing one's PhD	(Thanks to Abby Murray for bringing this site to my attention).	Here is a website describing non-profit universities offering online	doctorate programs. This website has no sponsored search or ranking. The	main goal is to promote the gems and little known doctoral programs	that can be completed online at the world-class non-profit academic	institutions.	(Thanks to Lukas Pech	(lukas_pech@hotmail.com) for bringing this site to my attention.).	Me in Full Academic Regalia at a PhD Defense in Europe	This is I dressed in full academic	regalia (I had to wear dress pants, dress shirt, shoes, and socks	underneath.) asking the candidate a question during a PhD defense in	Europe.	Caricatures that Have Been Drawn of Me	A caricature drawn of me in 1985 at	Knott's Berry farm (where I was grown :-) ) in Beuna Park, California.	I had told the caricaturist that I was a computer science professor at	UCLA. He misspelled ``computer'' and mistakenly assumed that I wore a	tie and a jacket at work, even though I assured him that the shorts and	T-shirt I was wearing that hot summer day was my normal work attire at	UCLA.	A caricature drawn of me in 2005 at	the RE'05 banquet at the Muse des Arts Forains (Museum of Amusement	Parks) in Paris, France. See what 20 years has done to me!	Here are	two	photos	taken of me while the Parisian caricaturist was drawing me.	A caricature drawn by Pete	Sawyer of me in	2017 at the RE at 40 Seminar held at the former Monastery at Kappel am Albis,	Kloster, Switzerland. He drew it for the benefit of his daugher Gabriella,	who had, like I, attended every IEEE RE conference during her lifetime.	See what another 12 years has done to me!	This is an engraving of the 2005 RE'05	caricature on a beer mug produced and given to me by Jeremy Barbay	as a very nice honorarium for the ``How to Finish that Damn Ph.D.''	talk that I gave in May 2017 at Universidad de Chile, in Santiago Chile.	Thank you Jeremy for this and your hospitality!!!!	About My Hearing and Why I don't speak Hebrew	You can learn about my hearing and why I don't	speak Hebrew regularly even though I immigrated to Israel in 1987	and occasionally do speak Hebrew.	Directions to Haifa and the Technion	To see links to maps showing how to get to	Technion and Haifa from Ben Gurion Airport	For Old Time's Sake	If you want to look at the old .plan file,	go ahead :-)	This page is constructed from recycled ideas and gifs stolen	(treated as gifts to me :-)) from other Web pages!	The URL of this page is	http://se.uwaterloo.ca/~dberry	Daniel M. Berry's Home Page / Computer Science Department / University of	Waterloo / dberry B' uwaterloo NKUDA ca (anti-spam measure) / Revised 01	July 2003	E-mail	Decoys
