dan brown	Daniel G. Brown	Professor	David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science	University of Waterloo	Ph.D. (Computer Science), Cornell, 2000	S.B. (Mathematics with Computer Science), MIT, 1995	(Me, with chickenpox spots, February 2007. Not pleasant.)	(Many more cute photos of Rover,	who died in January 2018 after a life full of wagging and snuggling)	(A formal photo of me from early 2005, which I	really liked)	(A photo from when I was in grad school. People sometimes	are surprised that this photo is here, but I think it's fun to	remember where we come from.)	I perform research on bioinformatics, music information retrieval, computational	creativity, and, with the	Gambling Research	Lab, on prevention of problem	gambling.	I am the Director of Undergraduate Studies for Computer Science at	Waterloo, and will be in this role until June 2019. From July to	December of 2018, I served as Acting Director of Computer Science at Waterloo while Mark	Giesbrecht, who currently serves as the School's Director, was on sabbatical.	I am the Treasurer of	the Faculty	Association of the University of Waterloo (FAUW), which is the	official representative of Waterloo's faculty members.	Answers to most important questions about FAUW are	on our website,	or can be obtained by contacting our fantastic	Executive	Manager, Erin	Windibank.	You may find my CV in .pdf	or HTML versions here. My Google	Scholar page lists my publications. The summaries below don't link	to papers, but they should all be in my Scholar record; if it's	confusing, let me know.	Research projects	Bioinformatics	Phylogenetics: QTree and LSHtree are two very fast algorithms for	phylogenetic tree reconstruction that I designed with Jakub	Truszkowski.	QTree uses a complex search structure and a neat random	walk approach to add new taxa to a growing tree,	with O(n log n) runtime in a quartet	framework.	LSHtree adds new taxa to a growing tree by using hashing to	approximately locate the taxon, and then doing quartet queries to place	the taxon. It offers the first sub-quadratic runtime for an algorithm	that reconstructs trees in a Markov model of evolution.	As part of proving one of the theorems in the first QTree paper, I	needed a tail inequality for negative bionomial random variables. I	couldn't find any good links for "negative binomial Chernoff", so I	spent forever proving something that should've been	obvious. Now you don't need to. (And yes,	this is sort-of in the Dubhashi/Panconesi book, but not with the	emphasis it might have had.)	Robustness to outliers: Margareta Ackerman and David Loker and I	adapted some of their theoretical work on clustering to look at what	kinds of properties various phylogenetic algorithms satisfy.	Sequence correction: I have done two separate projects in this	domain.Pollux is a sequence-correction method for	large sets of second-generation sequence reads, developed by Eric	Marinier and Brendan McConkey and me.	PANDASeq2	is	an alarmingly heavily-cited, very fast algorithm for fixing overlapping reads	sequenced from, for example, ribosomal genes. Because the method is so	fast, and because	Andre Masella's code is very	solid, it is easily incorporated without	pain into other pipelines for metagenomic analysis.	I have also worked on alignment, gene finding, haplotype inference,	motif finding, HMM decoding, HIV subtype detection, kinship discovery,	and a host of other bioinformatics problems. If it's NP-hard	and a sequence or tree problem, there's a good chance I have studied	why it's easy to solve in practice, and I might have developed a	surprisingly fast algorithm for it.	Music and lyrics	RhymeAnalyzer: My former MMath student Hussein Hirjee and I	developed an algorithm for detecting rhymes in rap music lyrics.	They're interesting because they tend to be long, internal, and	imperfect. The program is on SourceForge; Hussein has finished	his MD (yes, really) at the University of Western Ontario, and is now a	resident in psychiatry in Toronto.	Rhyme complexity: Abhishek Singhi noticed that the RhymeAnalyzer	can be used to predict which songs are successful. Gratifyingly, the	more successful songs have more complex rhyme patterns, according to	the RhymeAnalyzer.	Alignment: With a group in France, I adapted BLAST-style	bioinformatics seeding of alignment to the cover song detection	problem. With a group in the Netherlands, we are also exploring use of	multiple alignment in this same domain.	We've also studied some cross-cultural aspects of music lyrics and	their understanding, and also whether poetry and lyrics differ.	Computational creativity	Computational creativity is the study of computer programs that	create artifacts that, if created by a human, would be perceived to be	creative artifacts. Most of my work in this area has been with my	recently-graduated PhD student Carolyn Lamb (co-supervised with	Charlie Clarke), who	studied how to make computer programs that make poetry, and what it means	to make a good computer poet. Among the outcomes of that work are a	quite detailed tutorial of different ways to understand creativity and	how that impacts on the ways of evaluating it, and several papers on news	poets of different sorts that we built.	Problem gambling	Largely because of my concerns about casino gambling, I've recently	affiliated with the	Gambling Research Lab at Waterloo. We're doing a lot of work on	trying to get good information about how slot machines work into players'	hands, currently culminating in a project to (essentially) put calorie	labels on slot machines. We have also studied a variety of other	gambling methods, like scratch tickets and bingo.	Teaching	These are the courses I have taught at UW:	Introduction to	Computer Science 2 (CS 116), a course I	developed and co-ordinated, and taught in its initial offering in	Winter 2009.	Computational techniques in biological sequence analysis (CS 482/682), a course I developed	and co-ordinate, which I have taught eight times.	Designing Functional Programs (CS 135)	Algorithms (CS 341)	Theory of computation (CS 360), which I have taught five times.	Algorithmic methods in phylogenetics (CS 798)	Markov Chains, Mixing Times and Concentration (CS 798)	Advanced topics in bioinformatics: large-scale sequence analysis (CS 882)	Regrettably, I haven't taught much in the past several years; see the	next section for the primary reason why I haven't.	Service	I have a bad habit of saying "yes", which has resulted in my serving in a	number of administrative roles.	I am in my final six months of being Director of Undergraduate Studies	for CS; I served in this role from July 2013 to December 2014, from	July 2016 to June 2018, and now from January 2019 to June 2019. As	DUS, I chair the curriculum committee, and am responsible for	undergraduate operations. I also direct the undergraduate staff,	working closely with their manager, Fenglian Qiu.	I am the Treasurer of the Faculty Association, and have been since July 2016.	From July to December of 2018, I served as Acting Director of the School,	chairing numerous School committees, interacting with external groups and	funders, representing CS within the university and Math Faculty, and	providing direction to staff and (sometimes) to faculty.	From July, 2011 to June, 2013, I was Associate Director of the School,	which means that I acted as Director	when David Taylor	was away, and also meant that I chaired a variety of School committees.	From July 2006 to June 2009, I was the School's Director of First-Year	Studies. As a role without much portfolio, this mostly meant I served in	several School and Faculty committees, with a particular eye on first-year curricula.	From February 2013 until June 2014, I was Waterloo's Academic Colleague to the Council of Ontario	Universities, which means I've met most of the university presidents in	Ontario, more than any other thing.	From 2008 to 2014, I served	on the University Senate and (in various years) its Finance and Executive Committees.	From 2010 to 2014, and for the first half of 2016 and of 2018, I was a member of the Faculty	Association's Status of Women and Equity Committee, recently renamed	the Equity Committee; I have also been	the representative from FAUW or from SWEC to a number of diversity-related	committees on campus.	Non-work-related things	I've decided to put these on their own page. You can find out more about	me as a person here.	And finally, I am not the bestselling author Dan Brown, nor are we	related. I don't like his writing. We have corresponded in the past, but	that was long ago. Please don't send me fan mail or threats.	David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science	University of Waterloo	200 University Ave., W.	Waterloo, ON N2L 3G1, Canada	voice: 519-888-4567 x36278	email: dan.brown@uwaterloo.ca	last updated 2 july 2016
