Nancy Day: Home	Nancy Day	Associate Professor	David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science	University of Waterloo	Home	Publications	Journals/Conferences	Technical Reports	Theses	Models	Students	Teaching	Service	Contact	Google Scholar	DBLP	ACM Digital Library	I study how to model and analyze software-intensive	systems to improve their	quality and safety. As the complexity and utility	of software continues to increase, industry needs	ways of ensuring the correctness of their products.	I use a range of formal analysis tools:	model checkers, SMT and SAT solvers, and theorem provers.	Areas of research: software engineering, model-driven engineering (MDE),	modelling and analysis, formal	methods, system safety, requirements specification and analysis.	Research Groups: Waterloo Formal Methods (WatForm), Software Engineering Lab.	Brief Bio: I arrived at the University of Waterloo in January, 2001.	Previously,	I was a Postdoctoral Research Associate at the	Oregon Graduate Institute.	I completed my PhD	at the	University of British Columbia in	October 1998 working with Dr. Jeff Joyce.	My undergraduate degree is from the	University of Western Ontario,	where I spent much of my time running	with the	cross-country	and track and field teams.	My work has won awards at MODELS (International	Conference on Model-Driven Engineering, Languages and Systems) and	ISSC (International System Safety Conference).	If you are a prospective graduate or undergraduate student interested in working with me,	please follow this link for details.	I am also interested in computer science outreach activities.	I volunteer at elementary schools to introduce computing to students	and participate in related activities with	UW's Centre for Education	in Mathematics and Computing. I enjoy supporting the	tech club at my children's school where we run robots in circles	around the teachers!	David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science, University of Waterloo	Last modified on Wednesday 30th of January 2019 07:33:46 PM
