Mark Giesbrecht's Home Page	Mark Giesbrecht	Professor and Director	David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science	University of Waterloo, Canada	cs.uwaterloo.ca/~mwg | mwg@uwaterloo.ca	Home Page	Research	Teaching	Grad Students	Professional	Administration	CV	Contact	Researcher	My research is in the area of Symbolic Mathematical Computation (more commonly known as Symbolic Computation or Computer Algebra). For me this is the study of computational methods applied to problems in algebra and number theory, and the use of algebraic techniques in algorithms and complexity. It also involves building computer algebra software, such as Maple and LinBox. For this work I was named an ACM Distinguished Scientist in 2013 and received an NSERC Synergy Award in 2003 for work with Maplesoft.	Teacher	I've taught more than twenty different courses, from first year through graduate-level. Unfortunately, right now I don't get much time to teach, but in Fall 2013 I taught two sections of Numerical Computation (CS370) for the first time. In Winter 2011 I taught computer algebra (CS 487) and taught CS 136 in Winter 2012. Please see my Teaching page for more information on my recent teaching. I have also been Director of the Undergraduate Studies (20022005), which includes curriculum design and implementation.	Adminstrator	I am the Director of the David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science. The Cheriton School is the largest Computer Science School in Canada, and one of the best in the world. It is also a wonderful place to be an educator and researcher, full of exceptional faculty members (more than 80), staff (more than 50), graduate students (more than 350), and undergraduate students (more than 3000). Please contact me if you want to be a part of Computer Science at Waterloo!	Graduate Supervisor	I've been lucky enough to supervise some exceptional graduate students. All have gone on to careers in academia and industry. See my Grad Students page for more details, and even better, follow through to their pages!	If you are interested in pursuing graduate studies in symbolic mathematical computation, please send me an email.	Organizer and Contributor	I am also involved in the computer algebra research community as an organizer, editor and referee. I was Program Chair of the largest conference in computer algebra, the International Symposium on Symbolic and Algebraic Computation (ISSAC) in 2013, after serving on its PC many times. I'm also very pleased to be an organizer of a series of workshops on the emerging field of symbolic-numeric computing (at MSRI in 2010, Waterloo in 2011 and Beijing in 2015). I'm also an editor of the Jouranl of Symbolic Computation. Please see my Professional page for information on these activities.	Last modified on	Monday, 02 January 2017, at 14:23 hours.
