Xi He	ABOUT ME	PROJECTS	PUBLICATIONS	INTERESTS	Hi, I am Xi. I graduated from National University of Singapore with Double Degree of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science.	I currently completed my	PhD program in Computer Science with	Prof. Ashwin	Machanavajjhala. I will join the Cheriton School of	Computer Science at University of Waterloo	as an assistant professor	(my new site ).	Contact Information	Duke University	Dept. of Computer Science	LSRC Building D101	308 Research Drive, Campus Box 90129	Durham, NC 27708	P: (919) 660-4007	Projects	Back to Top	Blowfish Privacy: Tuning Privacy-Utility Trade-offs using Policies	Collaborators: Ashwin Machanavajjhala and Bolin Ding  This research aims to provide ways for trading-off the privacy of individuals in a statistical database for the utility of downstream analysis of data. We present a novel class of privacy definitions - Blowfish privacy, which offers a rich interface to specify this trade-off. We show significant utility improvements for k-means clustering, releasing cumulative histograms and answering range queries with mechanisms under Blowfish privacy in comparison to their differentially private counterparts. (more details)	Differentially Private Trajectory Synthesis	Collaborators: Ashwin Machanavajjhala, Divesh Srivastava, Cecilia M. Procopiuc, Graham Cormode  This research considers methods to publish locations traces with differential privacy guarantee. Our approach involves modeling the location traces as top-k mobility patterns for a bounded sensitivity, and sampling location traces from a noisy semi-Markov model learned on the top-k patterns. We present	pruning strategies and efficient algorithms to post-process the noisy model which has an unbalanced hierarchical structure and to synthesize locations traces closer to the real datasets.(more details)	Coloring Privacy	This project has studied privacy in mobile-social system from another angle, visualization. Visualization creates images, graphics or animations to enhance people's understanding of information....(more details)	GPU Computing	Driven by the high computation power and affordability of Graphics Processing Units, known as GPU, we would like to explore the new role of GPU as a more general purpose processor for scientific and engineering applications.... (more details)	Publications	Back to Top	Ashwin Machanavajjhala, Xi He, "Provably privacy for mobility data", Springer Handbook on Mobile Data Privacy, 2017	Xi He, Ashwin Machanavajjhala, Cheryl Flynn, Divesh Srivastava,	"composing differential privacy and secure computation: A case study on scaling private record linkage", CCS 2017 link	Ashwin Machanavajjhala, Xi He, Michael Hay, "Differential privacy in the wild: a tutorial on current practices & open	challenges", SIGMOD 2017 link	Xi He, Nisarg Raval, Ashwin Machanavajjhala, "A Demonstration of VisDPT: visual exploration of differentially private	trajectories", VLDB 2016 (BEST DEMO AWARD) pdf	Ashwin Machanavajjhala, Xi He, Michael Hay, "Differential privacy in the wild: a tutorial on current practices & open	challenges", VLDB 2016 link	Xi He, Graham Cormode, Ashwin Machanavajjhala, Cecilia M. Procopiuc, Divesh Srivastava, "DPT: Differentially private trajectory synthesis using hierarchical reference systems", VLDB 2015 pdf code	Xi He, Ashwin Machanavajjhala, Bolin Ding, "Blowfish Privacy: Tuning Privacy-Utility Trade-offs using Policies",SIGMOD 2014 pdf	Y.C. Tay, Xuanran Zong, Xi He, "An Equation-Based Heap Sizing Rule", Performance Evaluation 70, 11 (Nov. 2013), 948964.	Interests	Back to Top	I like dancing, martial arts, basketball, swimming, web designs, movies...
