Edith Law @ U.Waterloo	Edith Law	Assistant Professor, University of Waterloo	Ph.D. (CMU), M.Sc. (McGill), B.Sc. (UBC)	edith.law-=at=-uwaterloo.ca	Home	Research	People	Teaching	Service	Join Us!	I am an Assistant Professor at the David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science at University of Waterloo. My research focuses on how people can enhance intelligent systems (e.g., human-in-the-loop systems, crowdsourcing) as well as how people can make sense of intelligent systems, including issues related to transparency, engagement, trust and collaboration. I am interested in developing technologies that leverage the AI-people partnership to tackle more complex problems in business, science and medicine.	I am part of the Human Computer Interaction Lab. My work is funded by NSERC Discovery Grant, NSERC-CIHR Collaborative Health Research Project (CHRP) as well as the CFI-JELF program.	Previously, I was a CRCS postdoctoral fellow at Harvard University. I graduated with a Ph.D. in Machine Learning from Carnegie Mellon University in 2012. Here is my curriculum vitae, list of publications, and a blurb about me from University of Waterloo Magazine.	News:	2019 is a busy year! I am the conference co-chair for HCOMP 2019, track chair for the Crowdsourcing and Human Computation Track at WebConf 2019 (i.e., formerly WWW 2019), Associate Chair and Accessibility co-Chair for CHI 2019, Panel co-chair for CSCW 2019, senior program committee member for AAAI 2019, Associate Chair for the ACM Interaction Design and Children (IDC) conference, and program committee member for ACM Creativity and Cognition Conference.	Our paper "Expression of Curiosity in Social Robots: Design, Perception, and Effects on Behaviour" is accepted to CHI 2019. Congratulations Jessy and Nalin!	Our paper "Resolvable vs. Irresolvable Disagreement: A Study on Worker Deliberation in CrowdWork" won Best Paper Award at CSCW! Congratulations Mike!	Mike Schaekermann is one of 39 students and the only student in Canada to receive the 2018 Google Ph.D. Fellowship in Human-Computer Interaction. Congraulations Mike!.	Design by OS Templates
