Ian McKillop	Search	CS at Waterloo	uwaterloo.ca	Skip to the content of the web site.	About Me	Teaching	Research	Grad Students	International	Contacting Me	Prof Ian McKillop	I work in the fields of information systems assurance and information management. I began my academic career as an accounting professor in UW's School of Accountancy where my interest in the design, use, and audit of financial systems was nurtured.	I moved to a major business school for 10 years and then returned to UW in 2004 to take up the JW Graham Chair in Health Information Systems. The chair was named after Professor J Wes Graham who was one of the founding members in 1967 of the Department of Applied Analysis and Computer Science at UW - the academic unit that grew to become known today as the David R Cheriton School of Computer Science.	Today, I am jointly appointed to both Computer Science in the Faculty of Mathematics and the Public Health Program in the Faculty of Applied Health Sciences. I also contribute to Waterloo's Centre for Business, Entrepreneurship and Technology.	Research	My research program is in the field of information management with a particular focus on data quality, security and performance management issues found in high-availability, mission-critical systems. Such systems are commonly used in banking, as well as in healthcare which leads to my interest in the broad field of health informatics. You can read more about my research and my research team here.	Teaching	My background is in the area of financial information systems, and therefore I enjoy teaching courses in our program designed for students interested in exploring how information systems are used by business. I also teach courses in health informatics. You can read more about my teaching here.	Other Roles	I serve as the Executive Director, University Health Research for the University of Waterloo. In this administrative role I help to co-ordinate the university's campus-wide health research portfolio on behalf of the Office of Research.	In addition to my UW affiliation, I am an adjunct professor with the Dept of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation in the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Toronto.	Ian McKillop, PhD	David R Cheriton School of Computer Science	University of Waterloo	200 University Avenue West	Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1	519 888 4567 x37127 ian[at]uwaterloo[dot]ca	http://www.uwaterloo.ca
