 Skip to main content Menu Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply Now Make a Gift President Home Biography Meet the First Lady President's Advisory Board Presidents Forum for Inclusive Excellence Presidents Leadership Institute Presidential Speaking Request Contacts Follow @ClemsonPrez President's Blog President's Initiatives Commission on the Status of Black Faculty and Staff Commission on Status of Women LGBTQ Commission Related Links About Academics Athletics ClemsonForward Clemson Forever Media Relations Outreach Research University Org Chart Clemson's 15th President, James P. Clements Welcome letter from President Clements: It is an exciting time to be at Clemson University ranked among top 25 national public universities for the 9th year. The Will to Lead campaign surpassed the billion-dollar goal, and achieved the distinction as the largest fundraising effort in the state of South Carolina. Applications for admission and the quality of the student body are at an all-time high. A major campus development initiative will add millions of square feet and position the university for the next 50 years. And, we have completed the roadmap for our next strategic plan ClemsonForward. These are all signs that the Clemson Family is stronger than ever. But as a father, I have learned that it takes a dedicated effort to nurture a family and help it grow. As an institution, we nurture the Clemson Family through our commitment to certain overarching priorities academic quality and innovation, individual student success, public service and economic outreach, and our core values of integrity, honesty and respect. Clemson University has accomplished amazing things in the past, and I believe the future is even brighter. The experience of being a part of the Clemson Family is unmatched, and I look forward to sharing it with all of you for years to come. Joe Sherman, Class of 1934, captured the essence of Clemson when he wrote, Theres something in these hills where the Blue Ridge yawns its greatness. I can assure you that whatever that something is it will stay with you and at this great University forever. Sincerely, James P. Jim Clements, Ph.D. Home Biography Meet the First Lady President's Advisory Board Presidents Forum for Inclusive Excellence Presidents Leadership Institute Presidential Speaking Request Contacts Follow @ClemsonPrez President's Blog President's Initiatives Commission on the Status of Black Faculty and Staff Commission on Status of Women LGBTQ Commission Related Links About Academics Athletics ClemsonForward Clemson Forever Media Relations Outreach Research University Org Chart Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply To Clemson Undergraduate Graduate Professional Online Education Employment Opportunities Policy/Terms of Use Text Version Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Site Information Copyright 2019 Clemson University Clemson, South Carolina 29634 864-656-3311 Contact Clemson Stories for the Clemson Family Clemson University on Facebook Clemson University on Twitter Clemson University on Google+ Clemson University on LinkedIn Clemson University on YouTube Clemson University on Flickr Clemson University on Instagram Home Admissions Campus Life Academics Visit Outreach Research About Apply Now Make a Gift 
