 Brian C. Dean Dean's Associate Professor in the School of Computing Program Coordinator, Computer Science PhD Program Program Coordinator, Biomedical Data Science and Informatics graduate programs Division of Computer Science School of Computing , Clemson University Office: McAdams Hall, Room 205 Phone: 864-656-5866 Mail: Brian C. Dean, School of Computing, Box 340974, Clemson SC 29634-0974 Email: bcdean@cs.clemson.edu Bio: I received my undergraduate and graduate degrees in computer science from MIT . My research interests are quite broad, encompassing most of algorithmic computer science and its applications, with recent emphasis on algorithmic applications in biomedical data science. I am also interested in computer science education, particularly at the high-school level. I currently direct the Applied Algorithms Group in the School of Computing at Clemson. My research was most recently supported by an NSF CAREER award . I also recently directed an NSF-funded research experiences for undergradutes (REU) program in data-intensive computing. Teaching: In Fall 2018, I am teaching CpSc 2120, an undergraduate course in algorithm design. I also organize a weekly seminar on programming and problem solving (CpSc 4890) geared particularly for students interested in participating in the ACM programming contest (Monday 5-6, McAdams 114). Advising: If you have taken one of my courses and done well, please feel free to contact me about research opportunities. Computing Contests: I'm the director of the USA Computing Olympiad , a program that contributes to computer science education at the high-school level via algorithmic programming competitions and on-line training materials. The USACO is one of several national scientific "Olympiads" at the high-school level, tasked with identifying and training top students in their respective disciplines. Each summer the USACO invites the top two dozen high-school students in the country to an intensive summer "training camp" at Clemson University, from which a team of 4 is selected to represent the USA at the International Olympiad in Informatics, the most prestigious international algorithmic programming contest at the high-school level. LectureScribe: In order to develop more effective multimedia content for my courses and an upcoming book, I'd written a program called LectureScribe nearly 15 years ago for recording animated "whiteboard lectures" on a tablet PC. The program has since been updated to run in a web setting; you can find it here . My wife, Delphine , is the Gregg-Graniteville Associate Professor in the Clemson Bioengineering Department. hits according to Web Counter 
