 Professor Joint Faculty in: Electrical and Computer Engineering , Computer Engineering Phone: 979-862-8683 FAX: 979-862-4630 Email: zixiang-xiong@tamu.edu Office: WEB 334H Website: Personal Website Google Scholar Profile Educational Background Ph.D. in EE, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC), 1996 Research Interests Distributed source coding for sensor networks, data hiding, and network information theory Joint source-channel coding, networked multimedia and data compression Genomic signal processing Network traffic smoothing and modeling. Network information theory, code designs and applications Distributed source coding of linear functions Minimum-energy network communications Multiterminal source coding theory and multiterminal video coding Cooperative diversity Dirty-paper coding Networked multimedia Audio/image/video coding Source-channel coding Biomedical engineering Medical image processing Awards & Honors IEEE Fellow NSF CAREER Award ARO YIP Award ONR YIP Award Selected Publications Z. Xiong, "Distributed video coding," Multimedia Image and Video Processing, L. Guan, Y. He, and S.-Y. Kung (Eds.), CRC, 2012. Z. Xiong, A. Liveris, and Y. Yang, "Distributed source coding," Handbook on Array Processing and Sensor Networks, S. Haykin and K. J. R. Liu (Eds.), Wiley, 2009. Z. Xiong and K. Ramchandran, "Wavelet image compression," The Essential Guide to Image Processing, A. Bovik, ed., Elsevier, 2009. V. Stankovic, A. Host-Madsen, and Z. Xiong, "Cooperative diversity: Capacity bounds and code designs," Adaptive Signal Processing for Wireless Communications, M. Ibnkahla (Ed.), CRC Press, 2008. R. Hamzaoui, V Stankovic, Z. Xiong, K. Ramchandran, R. Puri, A. Majumdar, and J. Chou "Channel protection and joint source channel coding techniques," Multimedia over IP and Wireless Networks: Compression, Networking, and Systems, M. van der Schaar and P. Chou (Eds.), Academic Press, 2007. R. Hamzaoui, V Stankovic, and Z. Xiong, "Forward error control for packet loss and corruption," Multimedia over IP and Wireless Networks: Compression, Networking, and Systems, M. van der Schaar and P. Chou (Eds.), Academic Press, 2007. Z. Xiong and K. Ramchandran, "Wavelet image compression," Handbook of Image and Video Processing, A. Bovik, ed., 2nd edition, Academic Press, 2005. Z. Xiong and K. Ramchandran, "Wavelet image compression," Handbook of Image and Video Processing, A. Bovik, ed., Academic Press, 2000. A. Nosratinia, G. Davis, Z. Xiong, and R. Rajagopalan, "Subband image compression,'' Wavelet, subband and block transforms in communications and multimedia, A. Akansu and M. Medley, eds, Kluwer, 1999. W. A. Pearlman, B.-J. Kim, and Z. Xiong, "Embedded video subband coding with 3D SPIHT,'' Wavelet Image and Video Compression, P. Topiwala, ed., Kluwer, 1998. Google Scholar Profile : 
