Name: Nitesh V Chawla Title: Frank M. Freimann Professor College: Department of Computer Science and Engineering Job: Frank M. Freimann Professor Department: College of Engineering Email:nchawla@nd.edu Phone: 574-631-1090 Office: 384 Nieuwland Science Hall Website: http://www.nd.edu/~nchawla/ Education: Ph.D., Computer Science and Engineering, University of South Florida, 2002 M.S., Computer Science, University of South Florida, 2000 B.E., Computer Science and Engineering, University of Poona, 1997 Biography: Nitesh Chawla, PhD is the Frank Freimann Professor of Computer Science and Engineering, Director of Data Inference Analysis and Learning Lab (DIAL), and Director of the Interdisciplinary Center for Network Science and Applications (iCeNSA). He started his tenure-track position at Notre Dame in 2007, and was promoted and tenured in 2011, and chaired full professor in 2015. His research is focused on machine learning, data science, and network science. He is at the frontier of interdisciplinary applications with innovative work in healthcare ianalytics, social and information networks, business analytics, national security, and climate/environmental sciences. He is the recipient of multiple awards for research and teaching innovation including outstanding teacher awards (2007 and 2010), National Academy of Engineers New Faculty Fellowship, and number of best paper awards and nominations. He is the recipient of the 2015 IEEE CIS Outstanding Early Career Award; the IBM Watson Faculty Award, the IBM Big Data and Analytics Faculty Award, National Academy of Engineering New Faculty Fellowship, and his PhD dissertation also received the Outstanding Dissertation Award. In recognition of the societal and community driven impact of his research, he was recognized with the Rodney Ganey Award and Michiana 40 Under 40. He is a Fellow of the Reilly Center for Science, Technology, and Values;, Fellow of the Institute of Asia and Asian Studies; and Fellow of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at Notre Dame. He is the founder of Aunalytics, a data science company. Summary of Activities/Interests: He directs the Notre Dame Interdisciplinary Center for Network Science and Applications (iCeNSA) and the Data Inference Analytics and Learning Lab (DIAL). 
