 Home Courses Projects Software Bio Books Papers Committees Presentations Students Paul Eller Hassan Eslami Samah Karim Tarun Prabhu William D. Gropp Director and Chief Scientist, National Center for Supercomputing Applications Thomas M. Siebel Chair in Computer Science Computer Science Department University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign Urbana, Illinois Looking for the head of the CS Department? You want Vikram Adve Phone : 217 244 6720 Fax : 217 265 6738 email : wgropp at illinois.edu ORCID : orcid.org/0000-0003-2905-3029 Research Interests My interest is in the use of high performance computing to solve problems that are too hard for other techniques. I have concentrated in two areas: the development of scalable numerical algorithms for partial differential equations (PDEs), especially for the linear systems that arise from approximations to PDEs, and the development of programming models and systems for expressing and implementing highly scalable applications. In each of these areas, I have led the development of software that has been widely adopted. PETSc is a powerful numerical library for the solution of linear and nonlinear systems of equations. MPI is the mostly widely used parallel programming system for large scale scientific computing. The MPICH implementation of MPI is one of the most widely used and is the implementation of choice for the world's fastest machines. A new interest is the development of a Deep Learning Major Research Instrument Project , which combines my interests in HPC software and numerics and high-performance I/O with the revolution in machine learning. Research Opportunities I have an active research program and currently have openings for graduate students, post docs, and scientific programmers. Center for the Exascale simulation of plasma-coupled compustion has a number of openings . Upcoming Presentations Of Special Interest Workshop on Deep Learning for Multimessenger Astrophysics: Real-time Discovery at Scale , October 17-19, 2018 at NCSA. 2016 Ken Kennedy Lecture at SC16. Our report on Future Directions for NSF Advanced Computing Infrastructure to Support U.S. Science and Engineering in 2017-2020 is now available! The report is freely available at that link, and provides a framework for NSF's advanced computing for the future (not just until 2020). Video of lectures at the 2016 ATPESC . Using MPI, 3rd edition and Using Advanced MPI released! Using MPI is an extensive revision, including new material on MPI-2.2 and MPI-3. Using Advanced MPI is a replacement for Using MPI-2 , and includes new material on the MPI-3 one-sided interface, the new tools interface, and Fortran, as well as extensive revisions throughout. Now available: The SC13 opening session video , including award presentations and Genevieve Bell's keynote. See Genevieve Bell's Keynote The Secret Life of Data (a subset of the full opening session) Changing How Programmers Think about Parallel Programming , ACM Webinar. See this link for questions and answers PETSc wins an R&D 100 award in 2009. MPICH2 wins an R&D 100 award in 2005. Current Program Committees SC18 Workshop Program Committee SC18 Test of time award Committee EuroMPI'18 Program Committee Computer Science Department University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign 
