Name: Panos Antsaklis Title: H. Clifford and Evelyn A. Brosey Chair Professor College: Department of Electrical Engineering Job: Concurrent Professor Department: Department of Computer Science and Engineering Email:antsaklis.1@nd.edu Phone: 574-631-5792 Office: 205A Cushing Hall Website: http://www.nd.edu/~pantsakl/ Education: Ph.D, Brown University, 1977 M.S., Brown University B.S., University of Notre Dame Biography: Panos J. Antsaklis is the H.Clifford and Evelyn A. Brosey Professor of Engineering and Concurrent Professor of Computer Science and Engineering. and of Applied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics at the University of Notre Dame. He holds a Diploma in Mechanical and Electrical Engineering from the National Technical University of Athens (NTUA), Greece, and holds MS and PhD degrees in Electrical Engineering from Brown University. His area of research is Automatic Control Systems. He has authored two graduate textbooks, "Linear Systems" (McGraw-Hill 1997 and Birkhauser 2006, with A.N. Michel).and "A Linear Systems Primer" (Birkhauser 2007, with A.N. Michel), and two research monographs, "Supervisory Control of Discrete Event Systems Using Petri Nets" (Kluwer Academic 1998; with J. Moody) and "Supervisory Control of Concurrent Systems: A Petri Net Structural Approach" (Birkhauser 2006, with M.V. Iordache). He was Guest Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control Special Issue on Networked Control Systems (with John Baillieul, September 2004) and of the Special Issue on Networked Control Systems Technology of the Proceedings of the IEEE (with John Baillieul, January 2007). He was Guest Editor of special issues on Hybrid Control Systems in the IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control (with A. Nerode; 1998), and in the Proceedings of the IEEE in July 2000. He has been plenary and keynote speaker in a number of conferences, and he is the recipient of several teaching awards at the University of Notre Dame. He is an IEEE Fellow for his contributions to the theory of feedback stabilization and control of linear multivariable systems, IEEE Third Millennium Medal recipient, and the 2006 recipient of the Brown Engineering Alumni Medal (BEAM). He is the Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, one of the leading journals in the field of Control Systems. Summary of Activities/Interests: Research Interests: My research group focuses on Cyber Physical Networked Embedded Systems and addresses problems in the interdisciplinary research area of Control, Computing and Communication Networks, and on Hybrid and Discrete Event Dynamical Systems. It addresses problems of control and automation and examines ways to design engineering systems that will exhibit high degree of autonomy in performing useful tasks. Application areas include transportation, manufacturing, and chemical process systems, as well as computer and communication networks. My work includes analysis of behavior based on mathematical models and design of control strategies for complex autonomous, intelligent, learning and reconfigurable systems. RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS AND PERSONAL REFLECTIONS First, a few words about my research vision and the way I work, so to make clearer (especially to future PhD students) the reasons for having selected the specific areas of research described below. I work closely with students in research and I allow significant freedom in the selection of PhD research topics. I encourage individuality and excellence, and I expect love of the subject, enthusiasm and intellectual curiosity. I think the Systems and Controls area is a truly great research area and I expect my students to feel the same way. I try to be responsive to future application needs, as in my opinion this is where a University should be conducting its research, keeping an eye down the road, and focusing primarily on defining and articulating new methods and solving new problems in novel ways, without excluding of course extending a helping hand if requested by industry practitioners. The concern for addressing effectively future research needs in applications has led me to move onto novel research areas with my group and play leading roles in those areas. In the late 80s my group helped establish Autonomous Intelligent Control in the mainstream control research community; in the early 90s, we introduced Supervisory Control of Discrete Event Systems (DES) using Petri nets; in the mid-90s we helped establish Hybrid Control Systems and influenced its research directions; more recently we are involved in Networked Control Systems, in the Distributed Control of Multi-agent Systems and in Cyber-Physical Systems research. Recent funded projects include methods to design Cyber-Physical Systems based on passivity, and Supervisory Control of Discrete Event Systems using Petri Nets to derive methods for concurrent programming. Courses: Control Systems, Linear Systems, Mathematical Programming Courses: Control Systems, Control Systems Lab 
