 Wayne State University Warrior strong Login Search Search: Search Admissions Programs Students Faculty Research Alumni Community partners About Menu College of Engineering Dr. Marco Brocanelli Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science Contact Ph.D. Students Wanted Welcome I am an Assistant Professor in the Computer Science Department of Wayne State University . I received my B.E. and M.E. degrees in Control Systems from the University of Rome Tor Vergata (Italy). I spent the last 6 months of M.E. studies at The Ohio State University (Columbus, Ohio, USA) working on my M.E. thesis under the supervision of Dr. Andrea Serrani and Dr. Luca Zaccarian . After graduation (May 2011), I kept working under the supervision of Dr. Andrea Serrani as a Visiting Scholar and then, in August 2012, I started my Ph.D. in the Power-Aware Computer Systems (PACS) Laboratory under the supervision of Dr. Xiaorui Wang . In August 2018, I received my Ph.D. degree in the Electrical and Computer Engineering program of The Ohio State University. My research interests are in the area of cyber-physical systems, energy-aware systems, Internet of Things (IoT), edge computing, embedded and real-time systems. If you are interested in joining my group as a Ph.D. student, visit my research page for more details. News Wayne State to develop rigorous computing system to better understand internal workings of the human body Computer science alumnus included in Ford's "Thirty Under 30" Becoming industry-ready: engineering students gaining valuable skills through summer internships More news Events Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) - Info Table and Meet & Greet. September 25, 2018 at 12:00 p.m. More events Main Menu Admissions Programs Students Faculty Research Alumni Community partners About Home Research Publications Teaching Announcements Contact Twitter Facebook YouTube Flickr LinkedIn Dr. Marco Brocanelli Department of Computer Science 5057 Woodward Ave Room 14200.9, Detroit, MI 48202 Phone: (313)-577 5408 Email: brok@wayne.edu Privacy and University Policies Wayne State University 2018 
