 Alexander Kotov Assistant Professor Department of Computer Science Wayne State University [ Full CV ][ 2-page CV ][ DBLP ] Contact information: Office: Maccabees Building, Suite 14001.6 (14th floor) Email: kotov at wayne dot edu Phone: (313) 577-9307 Mailing address: Computer Science Department, Wayne State University 5057 Woodward Ave, Suite 14001.6 Detroit, Michigan 48202, USA Home Resume Publications Teaching Service Code WSU News I will be attending CIKM 2018 to present our paper "Attentive Neural Architecture for Ad-hoc Structured Document Retrieval" I will be giving a tutorial on "Utilizing Knowledge Bases in Text-centric Information Retrieval" at SIGIR 2018 About me I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science at Wayne State University and the head of Textual Data Analytics Laboratory (TEANA). I am interested in large-scale textual information analysis in a broad sense, including information retrieval, textual data mining and healthcare informatics. More specifically, my current research focus is on graphical models (including topic models), sentiment analysis, retrieval models for social media and computational analysis of clinical interview transcripts as well as electronic health records. I obtained a Ph.D. from the Department of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign . At UIUC I was advised by Professor ChengXiang Zhai and was a member of the Textual Information Management (TIMan) research group. After that, I was a Post-Doctoral Fellow and Adjunct Assistant Professor at Emory University working with Professor Eugene Agichtein and Professor Hongyuan Zha at Georgia Tech . Prospective students I am looking for one highly motivated Ph.D. student or post-doc with machine learning and probabilistic modeling background demonstrated by good grades in completed relevant courses, past projects and/or previous publications, who is interested in conducting research in machine learning/textual data mining with applications to healthcare informatics and information retrieval. If you have the required background , ambitious goals for your Ph.D. and the work ethic necessary to achieve them , please email me your resume. I am also interested in working on research projects with strong undergraduate or masters students. 
