 " Do not let your hearts be troubled. You believe in God; believe also in me. " John 14:1 Shiyong Lu ( ) Professor, IEEE Senior Member Director of Big Data Research Laboratory Department of Computer Science Wayne State University 5057 Woodward Ave, Suite 3010, Detroit, Michigan 48202, U.S.A. Office: 14105.1 Maccabees Bldg. Lab: 3105 Maccabees Bldg. Phone: 313--577--1667(O), 577--6711(L) Fax: 313--577--6868 Email: ( HisFirstName )@wayne.edu Announcements ( What is it? ) Congratulations to Ishtiaq, Bai and Fahima for their best student paper award at IEEE Congress on Big Data. Ishtiaq Ahmed, Shiyong Lu, Changxin Bai, Fahima Amin Bhuyan, "Diagnosis Recommendation using Machine Learning Scientific Workflows". Prospective Ph.D. students : we received another 1M NSF project on big data in Aug 2017. We are looking for two excellent new PhD students. The best way to approach me is to look at http://www.dataview.org . You can sign up and then download the DATAVIEW code and see if you can introduce some functionality to the system. I love to see a demo of your projects to demonstate your skills in Javascipt/AJAX, JAVA and SQL. System coding is critical in our lab. Big data is on the No 1 of NSF's 10 BIG IDEA LIST . CFP: IEEE BigData Conference 2018. Due 8/8/2018. CFP: IEEE BigData Congress 2017. Due 1/19/2017. Congratulations to Aravind and Mahdi, who will join Allegheny and Lawrence Tech University, respectively, in Fall 2017 as tenture-track assistant professors there. Cheers! Congratulations to Andrey, who received a faculty position offer from Eastern Michigan University. He will become an assisstat professor there from Fall 2016. Congratulations to Andrey, who got the Michigan Conrad Award in 2016. This award is given to only one student who published one best paper in a previous year. Milestone of KDM (> 4000 users): The KDM tool (http://kdm.dataview.org) is already being used by more than 4000 registered users worldwide, representing over 200 universities and companies in more than 100 countries across 5 continents. These users include professors, graduate and undergraduate students, entrepreneurs, big data architects, and engineers that have used KDM to create over 10,000 hundreds of intelligent big data models in various domains, including healthcare, education, Internet of Things, stock market, retail and many others. Short Biography Dr. Shiyong Lu is a Professor in the Department of Computer Science at Wayne State University , the Director of the Big Data Research Laboratory . Our lab believes that mankind has entered the big data era, and with an extreme focus and deligence we can produce high-impact research results or tools. Our lab has a rich and nurturing culture to cultivate and train future professors - among graduates, eight of them have joined other universities as professors. Therefore, presentation skills will be well-trained in this lab. Dr. Lu received his Ph.D. in computer science from State University of New York at Stony Brook in 2002. Before that, he received his M.E. from the Institute of Computing Technology , Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing in 1996 and B.E. from the University of Science and Technology of China at Hefei in 1993. Dr. Lu's current research focuses on machine learning scientific workflows , services computing , and big data security . He is an author of two books and over 140 articles published in various international conferences and journals, such as Data and Knowledge Engineering (DKE), IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering (TKDE), IEEE Transactions on Services Computing ( TSC ), IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems (TPDS), IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine (TITB), Theoretical Computer Science (TCS), Information Systems (IS), etc. Dr. Lu's research is supported by NSF, Department of Agriculture, Michigan Tri-corridor, and Wayne State University . He is a Senior Member of the IEEE. Dr. Lu is an associate editor of International Journal of Big Data, and an editorial board member of International Journal of Big Data Intelligence (IJBDI). Dr. Lu is currently involved in several big data projects, including NSF projects to develop big data technologies for bioinformatics, automobile industry, and civil engineering projects. . Located at midtown of Detroit, the Motor City, Wayne State University is a premier Carnegie Research Exensive University ranked in the top 50 in R & D expenditures of all public universities by the National Science Foundation. The university offered more than 350 academic programs through 13 schools and colleges, to more than 32,000 students, ranked as one of the top 3 universities in the state of Michigan. Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology ranks #1 in the country in terms of total funding from the National Institutes of Health. It is the home to the NIH Perinatology Research Branch, which is dedicated to improving the quality of maternal-fetal health nationwide. The School of Medicine at Wayne State University is the largest single-campus medical school, and the third-largest overall, in the United States. The School of Library and Information Science is ranked in the top 20 programs in the country. The doctoral program of the College of Nursing was ranked 5th in the country. Michigan has many attractive hot spots . Research DATAVIEW | DATAVIEW youtube channel DATAVIEW is a big data workflow management system. It uses Dropbox as the data cloud and Amazon EC2 as the compute cloud. Current research focuses on the security and privacy aspects of DATAVIEW as well as performance and cost optimization for running workflows in clouds. KDM , a visual tool for big data modeling for NoSQL database system Cassandra. OPMProv , a provenance management system that supports the OPQL query language, web services, and visualization. Download OPMProv code. Publications | Google Scholar | DBLP | Bio for Journal The 40 papers list DBLP workflow Teaching Winter 2018: CSC 6710: Database Management Systems I Winter 2018: CSC 8710: Seminar on Big Data Management Other CS courses | Bulletins Professional Services Co-Editor-in-chief of International Journal of Cloud Computing and Service Science Associate Editor of International Journal of Big Data Editorial Board Member of International Journal of Big Data Intelligence (IJBDI) Program Committee Member of IEEE International Congress on Big Data (IEEE BigData 2014) Program Committee Member of IEEE International Conference on Big Data (BigData 2013) Hobbies Calliography Yue Opera Ping Pong Datasets for Big Data Detroit Open Data Portal Vehicle openXC datasets Stanford Large Network Dataset Collection Data Tang data.gov Amazon public datasets Machine learning library For Students Good deals on shopping food A sample recomendation letter is here. The letter typically covers the grades (for each assignment and also the final grade) and other performance (such as exercises and projects). A final grade of A would be a good basis for a strong letter. Connect Services(for technology issues) Try HTML Point cloud demo dygraphs.com Dr. Lu's first Webench Dr. Lu's Programming Resources mxgraph programmin first page | mxgraph manual Others Autism workflow Diagnosis recommendation workflow NYC city Bike data analytics workflow How to develop a workflow task in DATAVIEW | How to develop a workflow in DATAVIEW big pixel 4 best Java books First Eclipse Java project Scratch game: one person shoot game Scratch game: workflow exuection on VMs Scratch game: blosoming 
