 Loren Schwiebert's website home research schedule contact Welcome to My Personal Website! Last update on October 29, 2014 Associate Professor Multicore Computing Lab Department of Computer Science College of Engineering Wayne State University Personal Information I received my BS in Computer Science with a dual major in Mathematics in 1986 from Heidelberg University in Tiffin, OH. I received my MS and Ph.D. degrees in Computer and Information Science in 1990 and 1995, respectively, from the Ohio State University . I was an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Wayne State University from August 1995 until August 2000. At that time, I transferred to the Department of Computer Science and was subsequently promoted to Associate Professor effective August 2001. From April 1998 until August 2000, I served as the Branch Counselor for the IEEE Student Branch . My curriculum vitae and almost all of my old publications are available in pdf format. If you are looking for my research on Wireless Sensor Networking, you can find the information at the Networking Wireless Sensors Lab web site. A list of most of my publications on GPGPU research is available from my current research project page, using the link above. I have also co-authored a book for McGraw-Hill on Mobile and Pervasive Computing. There is a web site for this book if you would like more information. To reduce the clutter on this page, I have relocated the information on contacting me by phone or snail mail. Since I have been using blackboard for the past few years, I have removed the links to my old teaching information. If there is something there you need, just send me an email and I'll send you a copy. If there is actually demand for some of these files, I'll make them available again. Calls for Papers Currently None Read more Funding Opportunities for Students At this time, I am looking for Ph.D. students with a research interest in the area of General-Purpose GPU (GPGPU) Programming who have a strong background in Algorithm Design, Software Development, and Mathematics. Some knowledge of multithreaded programming is also very helpful. Unfortunately, I do not expect to have funding for new students in Fall 2015. News Coming soon Read more Search 2008 Innovation. All Rights Reserved. Eyad [AT] Wayne [DOT] edu 
