 Prof Dude in Computer Science Department i work in distributed systems, cloud, big data, networking, and operating systems. i love working with grads/undergrads on projects, but i will not be taking on any students my first year. Email Preferred: ben.reed@sjsu.edu Telephone Preferred: 408 924-5174 Office Hours MH 213 monday & wednesday: 11:00-12:00, 3:00-4:00 tuesday: 3-4 thursday: 4-6 in room 1430 of the student union building (across from jamba juice) friday: 11:30-12:30 Education Ph.D. 2000 University of California Santa Cruz, Computer Science. M.S. 1993 DePaul University, Chicago, IL, Computer Science. B.A. 1987 Miami University, Oxford, OH, Mathematics; Computer Systems minor. Licenses and Certificates car and motorcycle license from california Bio once upon a time a little boy who was born in arizona moved with his family to ohio. he was excited to see snow. after a couple of days waiting for the bus in the snow, his excitement turned to misery. to this day he doesn't like snow. while not suffering in the snow he dreamed of living in "silicon valley" and becoming a professor. he went to miami university in ohio, spent a brief 2 years in spain, and got his masters at depaul in chicago. fortunately, tuition reimbursement while working in IT at sears and motorola paid for his education at depaul. he loved the midwest and considered himself to be a midwesterner. he was accepted to UCSC to work on his PhD. he was excited to see the ocean and go to the beach. after arriving in santa cruz, his excitement turned to disappointment when his first trip to the beach consisted of freezing cold water, stinky seaweed, and a naked guy running around. he loved the program at UCSC and ended up getting a position at IBM almaden research center, after an awesome internship there, while he was still finishing up his PhD. after many years at IBM, he left for yahoo research. it was hard to leave yahoo until they shut down the research division, so it was time for the boy to move on. he saw the things facebook was doing to connect the world, and he wanted to be part of that mission, but ended up going to osmeta, a little startup with some really cool tech and people. as chance would have it, facebook acquired osmeta, and the boy was able to work on really cool stuff at a really cool company that he felt was making the world a better place. by now the boy had been in california so long and felt so at home here that he considered himself to be a californian. this year, the boy found out that SJSU had an opening in the CS department. he applied and is now part of the CS faculty, and all of his dreams have come true: a faculty position in silicon valley. the end if you want the more official/boring version, here is my CV . if you want the sales pitch, here is my research statement . 
