 Peter Adams Professor, Civil and Environmental Engineering & Engineering and Public Policy Contact Doherty Hall 2112 Email 412-268-5624 412-268-7813 Address Civil & Environmental Engineering Carnegie Mellon University Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 Bio Peter Adams is a Professor in the Civil and Environmental Engineering Department and the Engineering and Public Policy Department at Carnegie Mellon University. His research largely focuses on development of chemical transport models and their application to decision-making, especially related to PM2.5. Adams also has extensive expertise in the simulation of aerosol microphysical processes, ultrafine particles and the formation of cloud condensation nuclei in global climate models. Areas of research have also included the effects of climate change on air quality, short-lived climate forcers, atmospheric ammonia and particulate matter formation from livestock operations, and the simulation organic particulate matter. Adams was selected for a Fulbright grant to collaborate with researchers at the Institute of Atmospheric Sciences and Climate in Bologna, has been a Visiting Senior Research Scientist at the National Aeronautics and Space Administrations Goddard Space Flight Center, and received the Sheldon K. Friedlander Award for outstanding doctoral thesis from the American Association for Aerosol Research. He has previously served on the Commonwealth of Pennsylvanias Air Quality Technical Advisory Committee and the Allegheny County Health Departments Air Toxics New Guidelines Proposal Committee as well as service to the American Association for Aerosol Research. His research is supported primarily by the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Science Foundation, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Department of Energy, and the Department of Defense. Adams received his BS degree in Chemical Engineering, summa cum laude, from Cornell University. He was awarded a Hertz Foundation Applied Science Fellowship for graduate study and received MS and PhD degrees in Chemical Engineering from the California Institute of Technology. He also holds an associated faculty position in the Chemical Engineering department at Carnegie Mellon. Courtesy Appointment: ChemE Education PhD 2001 - California Institute of Technology MS 1998 - California Institute of Technology BS 1996 - Cornell University Research Research Group: EESS Research Center: CAPS , CEDM Areas of Interest Climatic effects of atmospheric particulate matter (aerosols) Global and regional models of atmospheric chemistry Air quality in developing countries Aerosol Effects on Climate Anthropogenic aerosols cool the earth's climate by reflecting sunlight back to space and by serving as nuclei for cloud droplet formation. Their net effect has been to partially offset global warming from greenhouse gases, but uncertainty in the magnitude of this effect has complicated the assessment and forecasting of climate change. Research in this area focuses on improving the representation of aerosols in global climate, chemistry, and transport models by incorporating size-resolved aerosol microphysics and thermodynamics and testing these improved aerosol models against observations from ground networks, intensive field campaigns, and satellites. Other work examines how aerosols influence cloud reflectivity in small-scale, detailed simulations of cloud formation. Regional Air Quality Modeling Regional air quality models are being developed that predict the concentrations of ozone and particulate matter resulting from a given set of emissions. Specific goals in this area of research are to improve the computational efficiency of air quality models such that multi-year time periods can be simulated, better constrain the emissions of ammonia through inverse modeling, and examine the costs and benefits of air pollution controls and future energy policies in developed and developing countries. Publications Heo, J., S. T. McCoy, and P. J. Adams (2015) "Implications of ammonia emissions from post-combustion carbon capture for airborne particulate matter"Environmental Science and Technology,49(8), 5142-5150. Westervelt, D. M., J. R. Pierce, and P. J. Adams (2014) "Analysis of feedbacks between nucleation rate, survival probability and cloud condensation nuclei formation"Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics,14(11), 5577-5597. Jathar, S. H., Farina, S. C., Robinson, A. L., and Adams, P. J. (2011) The influence of semi-volatile and reactive primary emissions on the abundance and properties of global organic aerosol Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics, 11(15): 7727-7746. Chen, W. T., Lee, Y. H., Adams, P. J., Nenes, A., and Seinfeld, J. H. (2010) Will black carbon mitigation dampen aerosol indirect forcing?, Geophys. Res. Lett., 37(L09801): doi:10.1029/2010GL042886. Pierce, J. R., and Adams, P. J. (2009) Can cosmic rays affect cloud condensation nuclei by altering new particle formation rates?, Geophys. Res. Lett., 36. Pierce, J. R., and Adams, P. J. (2009) Uncertainty in global CCN concentrations from uncertain aerosol nucleation and primary emission rates, Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics, 9(4): 1339-1356. Curriculum Vitae OrcID . Recent Awards 2012: Fulbright Scholar; Global Implications of Emerging Organic Aerosol Chemistry, resident at the Institute of Atmospheric Sciences and Climate of the Italian National Research Council (ISAC-CNR) in Bologna, Italy 2010: Visiting Senior Research Scientist; University of Maryland, Baltimore County, and NASA Goddard Space Flight Center 2004: Sheldon K. Frielander Award (Outstanding Dissertation), American Association for Aerosol Research . 
