 Sean Qian Assistant Professor, Civil and Environmental Engineering, Carnegie Mellon University Menu Home Education Research Publications Professional Activities Teaching Search for: Home My name is Zhen Qian, reads [zen, tsian], and you can also call me Sean. I am an Assistant Professor jointly appointed at the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering (major) and Heinz College (minor) at Carnegie Mellon University. I also direct the Mobility Data Analytics Center (MAC) . My research interests lie in the integration and optimization of civil infrastructure systems. The primary focus is to manage an aging and overcrowded infrastructure and urban complex systems, and to build a sustainable and resilient infrastructure network. I have been developing optimization and statistical models of infrastructure networks by applying theories of network flow and economics. Idid my post-doctoral researchat the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Stanford University . Ireceived my PhD degree in Civil Engineering and Institute of Transportation Studies at UC Davis, andmy Bachelor's and Master's degrees in Civil Engineering with the focus on Transportation from Tsinghua University, Beijing . I am always open to working with highly motivated students who have strong quantitative background. Please send me an email if you are interested in the intersection of cyber, infrastructure and social systems, and you are enthusiastic about programming and mathematical modeling. Currently, I am looking for both undergraduate and doctoral Research Assistants entering in Fall 2019. A post-doctoral researcher position is also available. My research interests include: Infrastructure management Dynamic network modeling (routing, simulation and optimization) Intelligent transportation system (ITS) Data mining Infrastructure resilience Urban systems interdependency Multi-modal transportation Parking management Transportation economics Traffic operations Contact information Porter Hall 123C Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, PA, 15213 Email: seanqian AT cmu DOT edu Proudly powered by WordPress Theme: muits by Theme Weaver 
