 Home Research Climate Change Adaptation Future of Transportation Automation and Energy Future of the Electricity System Energy, Climate, & National Security People Professor Costa Samaras Students Publications & Media Journal Papers Peer-Reviewed RAND Reports National Academies Reports, Book Chapters, and Other Contributions Media Contributions Videos Teaching Apply Contact Costa Samaras Home Research Climate Change Adaptation Future of Transportation Automation and Energy Future of the Electricity System Energy, Climate, & National Security People Professor Costa Samaras Students Publications & Media Journal Papers Peer-Reviewed RAND Reports National Academies Reports, Book Chapters, and Other Contributions Media Contributions Videos Teaching Apply Contact Energy, Climate, Automation, and Resilience Costa Samaras is an Associate Professor at Carnegie Mellon University and an Adjunct Senior Researcher at the RAND Corporation, informing decisions about resilience, autonomous vehicles, and the future of energy systems. He is the Director of the Center for Engineering and Resilience for Climate Adaptation , and the Co-Director of the Power Sector Carbon Index . Our Research Thrusts Find out about our current research areas in climate change adaptation, autonomous and electric transportation, energy security, and the transition to a low-carbon energy system. Learn More Come Work With Us Our group trains students with interdisciplinary methods to be leading energy, resiliency, and autonomous systems scholars, practitioners, and decisionmakers. Find Out More Latest News Prof. Samaras wrote an Op-Ed in The Washington Post on electric vehicles, as part of a series of policy ideas to address climate change Prof. Samaras gave commentary in The Washington Post about Waymos driverless taxi service Prof. Samaras was a contributor to the 4th National Climate Assessment and gave commentary about climate resilience to The New York Times. Ph.D. student DeVynne Farquharson, Prof. Jaramillo, and Prof. Samaras publish paper in Nature Sustainability on electricity reliability in Sub-Saharan Africa, and write a blog post to summarize the results. Ph.D. graduate Corey Harper, Prof. Hendrickson, and Prof. Samaras publish a paper in the Journal of Urban Planning and Development on driverless cars and parking. Ph.D. student Tania Lopez-Cantu and Prof. Samaras publish paper in Environmental Research Letters on stormwater under climate change, and write an Op-Ed to summarize the results Prof. Samaras was a guest on The Energy Transition Show Ph.D. student Greg Schivley, Prof. Azevedo, and Prof. Samaras publish paper in Environmental Research Letters assessing the evolution of the U.S. power sector Ph.D. student Allant Whitmore gives talk on automated vehicle ethics at CMU's Ethics & AI Conference Prof. Samaras & colleagues publish a paper in Nature Communications on energy & environmental implications of drone package delivery. Ph.D. student Tania Lopez-Cantu was named a UCAR Next Generation Fellow Featured Video Prof. Samaras was a panelist discussing the future of infrastructure at a forum at The Washington Post. More videos Tweets Super stoked for the guest lineup on the Sunday shows this week: Dude whos always wrong Panel of reverse exper https://t.co/umNUaJKzVo 2 hours ago Great night of awards at the @ ASCEPgh dinner. Congrats to all, including @ CMU_CEE students and alums. https://t.co/7EzQjOpwx5 2 hours ago Its not dark yet, but its getting there. https://t.co/a5rMWl6OKX A day ago Anything I achieve is enabled by the students, staff, & faculty that I work with, & I am extremely grateful to have https://t.co/1jDLrJZOPn A day ago Annapolis. Hmm Annapolis. Besides being the state capital, isnt there something else there thats in our interest https://t.co/epOhquWip8 A day ago Overflow crowd at @ CMU_CEE to hear Prof. @ kellytsanders speak about the energy & water nexus. Demonstrates how exci https://t.co/Nyan6Y5NLw 2 days ago Heres our report on how the Military Construction (MILCON) process works and how projects are selected. Projects a https://t.co/xrYG2fafwi 2 days ago Constantine Samaras 2014- Carnegie Mellon University Civil and Environmental Engineering 5000 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15123 +1.412.268.1658 // csamaras@cmu.edu Back to Top 
