 Welcome Professional Experience Administrative Activities Consulting Experience Management Experience Professional Development Video Presentations and White Papers Research 1. Urban Water Infrastructure Assessing Lead in Drinking Water Brominated DBPs and Drinking Water Risk Climate Change Adaptation for Infrastructure Monitoring and Modeling Water Systems Optimization of drinking water treatment and distribution Nitrogen in urban infrastructure 2. Watershed Systems and Integrated Watershed Management Assessing watershed-scale impacts of wastewater treatment Sampling in Large Rivers Monongahela River Baseline 3. Energy Water Nexus Effect of Power Plant Discharges on Drinking Water Sources Oil and Gas Produced Water Discharges and Water Quality 4. Biodegradation 5. Nanomaterials Membranes and Organic Fouling Nanomaterials and Quorum Sensing Teaching Outreach and Educational Service Professional Service Awards Graduate Students Jeanne M. VanBriesen Recent Posts Hello world! Bookmarks Documentation Feedback Plugins Support Forums Themes WordPress Blog WordPress Planet Welcome Dr. Jeanne M. VanBriesen is the Duquesne Light Company Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering at Carnegie Mellon University. Dr. VanBriesen holds a B.S. in Education and a M.S. and Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from Northwestern University. Her current research interests are broadly in the areas of (1) urban water system sustainability and the built environment water cycle, and (2) the energy-water nexus and watershed decision making. She is particularly interested in how natural and engineering water systems interact across space and time and how biogeochemistry alters water quality through these transitions. Dr. VanBriesens prior research included (1) biodegradation of recalcitrant organic compounds (specifically chelates and PCBs) and (2) modeling bacterial system thermodynamics and diversity. Dr. VanBriesen has served on the boards of the Association for Environmental Engineering and Science Professors (AEESP) and the Ohio River Basin Consortia for Research and Education (ORBCRE). She is currently serving on the U.S.EPA Science Advisory Board and as Chair Elect on the Board for the Consortium of Universities for the Advancement of Hydrologic Sciences (CUAHSI). Education Ph.D. Civil (Environmental) Engineering, Northwestern University (1998) M.S. Civil (Environmental) Engineering, Northwestern University (1993) B.S. Education (Chemistry), Northwestern University (1990) Contact Information Jeanne M. VanBriesen Duquesne Light Company Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering Phone: (412) 268-4603 Fax: (412) 268- 7813 Email: jeanne@cmu.edu Office Location: Porter Hall 123 G Current Curriculum Vitae Google Scholar Page 
