 Tia Newhall Professor Computer Science Department Swarthmore College 500 College Ave Swarthmore, PA 19081 phone: (610) 690-5637 office: 252-B Science Center (I go by Tia, she/her) Teaching Current Semester Past Courses Research Projects Selected Publications Students Other My Unix & CS help pages/links CS graduate school links research/internship/job links Diversity in CS links I'm a professor in the Computer Science Department at Swarthmore College . I received my Ph.D. in Computer Science in 1999 from the University of Wisconsin where I was advised by Bart Miller . My general research area is parallel and distributed systems. Current Semester 2018-19 Schedule on leave Past Courses: CS21 Introduction to Computer Science CS31 Introduction to Computer Systems CS35 Data Structures and Algorithms CS44 Database Systems CS45 Operating Systems CS75 Compilers CS87 Parallel and Distributed Computing CS85 Distributed Systems CS97 Senior Conference Research My general research area is parallel and distributed systems. My main projects, Nswap and Nswap2L , implement fast backing storage systems for cluster computers. Nswap is a network RAM system for Linux clusters. Nswap allows individual cluster nodes with over-committed RAM to locate and use idle RAM of other nodes in the cluster. The goal of the project is to speed-up the runtime of cluster applications by avoiding the slow swapping to disk that normally occurs when a node doesn't have enough RAM space for the programs it is running. Nswap2L implements a virtualization layer on top of a heterogeneous collection of cluster storage devices including Nswap Network RAM, Flash SSD, disk and other cluster-wide backing store. It is added as a single block device to individual cluster nodes that transparently manages block placement on the set of underlying heterogeneous storage devices. Projects: The Nswap and Nswap2L Project . Nswap: Scalable and Adaptable Network RAM for Linux Clusters. Nswap2L: A Virtualization Layer on top of Heterogeneous Cluster Backing Storage PeerMon: A Peer-to-Peer Network Monitoring System Past Projects: Memory Management for SMPs Performance Measurement of Interpreted, JIT'ed & Dynamically Compiled Programs Paradyn Parallel Performance Tools Grants: National Science Foundation (NSF:CNS:CSR:Small:RUI), A Fast Backing Store System on top of Network RAM, Flash, and other Cluster-wide Storage , 2011-2016 Computer Research Association (CRA-W:CREU), Adding Reliability Support to Nswap, a Network Swapping System for Linux Clusters , 2004-2005 Selected Publications "Fire Simulator and Fractals: using a visualization library to introduce CUDA" , Tia Newhall, Andrew Danner, in Proceedings of 8th NSF/TCPP Workshop on Parallel and Distributed Computing Education (EduPar-18), in conjunction with IEEE IPDPS'18, Vancouver, British Columbia, May 2018. ( webpage with resources ) "Transparent Heterogeneous Backing Store for File Systems" , Benjamin Marks, Tia Newhall, in the 26th International Heterogeneity in Computing Workshop (HCW'17), in conjunction with IEEE IPDPS'17. Orlando FL, May 2017. ( paper or paper.pdf ) "Pervasive Parallel and Distributed Computing in a Liberal Arts College Curriculum" , Tia Newhall, Andrew Danner, Kevin C. Webb, The Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing, volume 105, July 2017. ( paper ). "Nswap2L: Transparently Managing Heterogeneous Cluster Storage Resources for Fast Swapping" , Tia Newhall, E. Ryerson Lehman-Borer, Benjamin Marks, in the Proceedings of the ACM International Symposium on Memory Systems (MemSys'16), October, 2016. ( paper , talk_slides ) "A Support Program for Introductory CS Courses that Improves Student Performance and Retains Students from Underrepresented Groups" , Tia Newhall, Lisa Meeden, Andrew Danner, Ameet Soni, Frances Ruiz, Richard Wicentowski, Proceedings of the ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE), March 2014. ( paper.pdf , talk_slides.pdf ) "Integrating Parallel and Distributed Computing Topics into an Undergraduate CS Curriculum" , Andrew Danner and Tia Newhall, Proceedings of the Third NSF/TCPP Workshop on Parallel and Distributed Computing Education (EduPar'13), (in conjunction with IEEE IPDPS'13), Boston MA, May 2013. ( paper.pdf ) "Chestnut: A GPU Programming Language for Non-Experts" , Andrew Stromme , Ryan Carlson , Tia Newhall, Proceedings of ACM International Workshop on Programming Models and Applications for Multicores and Manycores (in conjunction with PPoPP'12), New Orleans LA, February 2012. ( paper.pdf ) "Incorporating Network RAM and Flash into Fast Backing Store for Clusters" , Tia Newhall and Douglas Woos, Proceedings of IEEE Cluster, Austin, TX, September 2011 ( paper.pdf , talk_slides.pdf ) "PeerMon: A Peer-to-Peer Network Monitoring System" , Tia Newhall, Jnis Lbeks , Ross Greenwood, Jeff Knerr, Proceedings of USENIX 24th Large Installation System Administration Conference (LISA), November 2010 ( paper.pdf ) "Reliable Adaptable Network RAM" , Tia Newhall, Dan Amato, Alexandr Pshenichkin, Proceedings of IEEE Cluster Computing, Tsukuba, Japan, September 2008 ( paper.pdf ) "Parallelizing Neural Network Training for Cluster Systems" , George Dahl , Alan McAvinney, Tia Newhall, Proceedings of the International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Computing and Networks (PDCN), 2008 ( paper.pdf ) "Using Image Processing Projects to Teach CS1 Topics" , Richard Wicentowski and Tia Newhall. Proceedings of 35th ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE), February 2005. ( paper.pdf , Project Webpage w/instructor resources ) "Reliability for Network Swapping Systems that Support Migration of Remotely Swapped Pages" , Tia Newhall, Benjamin Mitchell, Julian Rosse. Proceedings of the 16th IASTED International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Computing and Systems, November 2004 "Nswap: A Network Swapping Module for Linux Clusters" . Tia Newhall, Sean Finney, Kuzman Ganchev, Michael Spiegel. Proceedings of Euro-Par'03 International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Computing, Klagenfurt, Austria, August 2003. Lecture Notes in Computer Science , 2790 , Springer. ( paper.pdf , talk slides ). "Using Departmental Surveys to Assess Computing Culture: Quantifying Gender Differences in the Classroom" . Lisa Meeden, Tia Newhall, Doug Blank and Deepak Kumar. Proceedings of the 8th Innovation and Technology in Computer Science Education (ITiCSE) Conference, Thessaloniki Greece, June 2003. ( paper.pdf , talk slides ). "Efficient Memory Management for SMPs Running Parallel and Sequential Workloads" . Tia Newhall and Patrick Boe. Proceedings of the 14th IASTED International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Computing and Systems, pp. 761-766, November 2002. "A Comprehensive Project for CS2: Combining Key Data Structures and Algorithms into an Integrated Web Browser and Search Engine" . Tia Newhall and Lisa Meeden. Proceedings of the 33rd ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Education (SIGCSE), Northern Kentucky, February 2002. ( paper.pdf ). (Project Web Page with instructor resources) . "Performance Measurement of Dynamically Compiled Java Executions" . Tia Newhall and Barton P. Miller. Concurrency, Practice and Experience , Volume 12, Issue 6, pp. 343-362, August 2000. Publisher John Wiley & Sons, Editor Geoffrey Fox. ( compressed postscript , PDF ). "Performance Measurement of Interpreted, Just-in-Time Compiled, and Dynamically Compiled Executions" . Tia Newhall. Ph.D. dissertation, under the supervision of Barton P. Miller, University of Wisconsin 1999. ( paper.pdf ). "Performance Measurement of Dynamically Compiled Java Executions" . Tia Newhall and Barton P. Miller. 1999 ACM Java Grande Conference, pp. 42-50, Palo Alto, June 1999. ( PDF ), Talk slides: ( PDF ). "Performance Measurement of Interpreted Programs" , Tia Newhall and Barton P. Miller. Proceedings of Euro-Par'98 International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Computing, Southampton, UK, September 1998. David Pritchard and Jeff Reeve (Eds.), Lecture Notes in Computer Science , 1470 , pp. 146-156, Springer-Verlag. ( compressed postscript ). "The Paradyn Parallel Performance Measurement Tools" , Barton P. Miller, Mark D. Callaghan, Jonathan M. Cargille, Jeffery K. Hollingsworth, R. Bruce Irvin, Karen L. Karavanic, Krishna Kunchithapadam, Tia Newhall. IEEE Computer , 28 , 11, pp. 37-46, November 1995. ( compressed postscript ). Computer Science Graduate School Resources CRA's Computer Science Undergraduate Research with information about CS research and CS graduate school. How to Succeed in Graduate School by Marie desJardins, from ACM Crossroads, 2008 Applying to Ph.D. Programs in Computer Science by Mor Harchol-Balter at CMU . This is a very good source of information about what getting a Ph.D. is like, how to apply to gradschool, the importance of grades, GREs, research experience, and letters of recommendations, how to write a good personal statement, how to get good letters of recommendation, how to pick schools to which to apply (and how to pick a school once accepted), and links to fellowships. Summer Research Opportunities for Undergraduates NSF's REU in CS (Research Experiences for Undergraduates) Follow the Computer and Information Sciences link. about NSF's REUs CRA Resources for Students CS Job Searching Resources ACM's Resrouces for Graduating Students Ultimate Guide to Programming Interviews Diversity in Computer Science Links WICS Swarthmore Women In Computer Science group Computing Research Association Commitee on the Status of Women in Computing Research (CRA-W) Computing Research Association Diversity in CS Programs ACM's ACM-W: Comittee on Women in Computing Tapia Celebration of Diversity in Computing Conference Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing Conference The Ada Project a clearinghouse for information and resources related to women and computing Last updated: Saturday, September 01, 2018 at 01:59:33 PM 
