 Toggle navigation Bobby Chan About Devs Research Teaching KB Contact BOBBY CHAN SFU About Me I am a lecturer at Simon Fraser University and have been teaching since Fall of 2007. I was born in Hong Kong and came to Vancouver when I was five years old. My interests are in theoretical computing science, software engineering, web development, and much of the visual arts. I try to keep my classes as interactive as possible, being as "practical" as possible to real life. DEVELOPMENT Current developments go here ... links coming soon RESEARCH Maximum Charge Problem Fractional Matching Problem Vehicle Routing Problem with Skillsets Scheduling with Skillsets Recent Courses CMPT125 Programming II A rigorous introduction to computing science. Learn fundamental concepts of computing science and basic principles of algorithm design and software development ... More CMPT354 Database Systems Provides an introduction to the DBMS, logical representations of data records, data models, and its mathematical theories ... More CMPT276 Software Engineering An overview of various techniques used for software development and software project management. Students learn the standard methodologies underlying ... More Macm101 Discrete Mathematics The course focuses on establishing basic principles of discrete mathematics and motivate the relevance of those principles by providing examples of applications in Computing Science... More CMPT165 Internet and W.W.W. Introduces the basic frameowrk of creating simple web sites. Using HTML5 (structure), CSS (visual), and basic JavaScript to create more interactive and interesting web pages ... More CMPT120 Programming I An elementary introduction to computing science and computer programming. Learn fundamental concepts and acquire elementary skills for programming in a high-level language ... More CMPT150 Computer Design Learn how basic logic blocks of a simple computer are designed and programmed in machine language ... More Things I know Contact Name: Email: Message: 
