 Simon Fraser University sfu.ca Burnaby Surrey Vancouver Home Contact C.V. About Me Teaching Research Papers Talks Theorems SSS: Software Database Pointers Former Students Prospective Students Graduate Students Graduate Funding Possible Thesis Topics Undergraduate Students Undergraduate Funding Previous Lives My Youth in Chess Philosophy Miscellaneous NSF Project Ockham's Razor Learning Theory Oliver Schulte Professor School of Computing Science Simon Fraser University Burnaby, B.C. V5A 1S6 Canada Phone: +1-778-782-3390 Fax: +1-778-782-3045 Machine Learning for Structured Data Learning Theory Computational Game Theory Ph.D.: 1997, Carnegie Mellon University , Logic and Computation M.Sc.: 1993, Carnegie Mellon University , Logic and Computation B.Sc.: 1992, University of Toronto , Computing Science . Find time for a meeting: Work Schedule Affiliations Director Structured Machine Learning Lab Associate Member Department of Statistics Scientific Advisor for SportLogiq Member of SFU Sports Analytics Group I am looking for a postdoctoral fellow for Sports Analytics Research. This position is funded by our strategic project award, see below. My project description site has more information about the topics. Please send me a CV if you are interested in more details. Noteworthy Events Strategic Project award. I was the PI on a partnership award from the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, totalling over $500K for 3 years. The success rate is 20%. Our company partner is Scientific Advisor for SportLogiq . My co-applicants are Greg Mori and Pascal Poupart. Best paper award from the StarAI@IJCAI workshop for the contribution from Manfred Jaeger and myself. The paper discusses how inference and learning for relational network data depends on the population size (node size). NSERC Discovery and Accelerator award. The Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada has renewed my operating grant and given me a bonus award. The The Accelerator awards aim to provide substantial and timely additional resources to accelerate progress and maximize the impact of outstanding research programs. SFU News and Faculty of Applied Sciences News published an article about our paper at MIT Sloan conference. We said that Erik Karlsson was the best player in the 2015-2016 NHL season and hasn't he been great in 2016-17? My undergraduate RA and coauthor Zeyu Zhao has won the Dean's convocation medal for the Faculty of Applies Sciences. Next he'll be entering the M.Sc. Program at Harvard. Check out my tutorial in learning Bayesian networks for complex relational data . Presented at AAAI 2017, ECML 2016 and Canadian AI 2015. The faculty of Applied Sciences has made a video about some of my research on hockey analytics. I must learn to keep my eyes open while I talk. I co-organized the 2016 Vancouver Hockey Analytics Conference . You can see the presentations on-line. I especially recommend the media panel. #vanhac was hashtag number 4 in Canada on the day of the conference! Fatemeh Riahi received the best student paper award at the IEEE Symposium on Computational Intelligence for her paper "Model-based Outlier Detection for Object-Relational Data" Kurt Routley received an award for the best Canadian AI Master's Thesis of 2015 from the Canadian Artificial Intelligence Association. The IJCAI conference gave me a blue ribbon for my service on the Senior Program Committee 2016. The CTU Prague Relational Learning Repository is live now. It contains over 80 relational datasets for learning. I developed this together with Jan Motl. Here's a write-up of what you can find in it, including how to connect to the database server. 
