 Joan Bruna Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences and Center for Data Science, NYU Department of Computer Science, Department of Mathematics (affiliated) e-mail: bruna [AT] cims.nyu.edu Menu Skip to content About Current Group Prospective Students Publications Code Teaching Talks and Videos CV About me I am an Assistant Professor at Courant Institute, NYU, in the Department of Computer Science, Department of Mathematics (affiliated) and the Center for Data Science, since Fall 2016. Together with my Machine Learning friends and colleagues I belong to the CILVR (Computational Intelligence, Learning, Vision and Robotics) group , and with my Mathematics and Statistics friends we recently created the Mad (Math and Data) group . My research interests touch several areas of Machine Learning, Signal Processing and High-Dimensional Statistics. In particular, in the past few years I have been working on Deep Convolutional Networks, studying some of its theoretical properties and applications to several Computer Vision tasks. I am currently interested in generalisations of CNNs to more general geometries and its applications to Physics, Chemistry and Computational Complexity. From 2015 to 2016, I was Assistant Professor of Statistics at UC Berkeley and part of BAIR (Berkeley AI Research). Before that, I worked at FAIR (Facebook AI Research) in New York. Prior to that, I was a postdoctoral researcher at Courant Institute, NYU, under the supervision of Prof. Yann Lecun. I completed my PhD in 2013 at Ecole Polytechnique, France, under the supervision of Prof. Stephane Mallat. Before my PhD I was a Research Engineer at a semi-conductor company, developing real-time video processing algorithms. Even before that, I did a MsC at Ecole Normale Superieure de Cachan in Applied Mathematics (MVA) and my undergrad at UPC (Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya, Barcelona) in both Mathematics and Telecommunication Engineering. My CV is available here . Last updated Monday, 19-Mar-2018 20:17:56 EDT 
