 Ernest Davis Department of Computer Science, Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences, New York University Contact Email: . Email is best Phone: (212) 998-3123. Fax: (212) 995-4121 Address: Dept. of Computer Science, New York University, Room 329, 251 Mercer St., New York NY 10012 USA Teaching Current Course Web Page: Artificial Intelligence Previous Course Web Pages Academic Family Tree (Teachers and Students) Computer Science Education At NYU Research In my research, I study the problem of representing commonsense knowledge: that is, the problem of taking the basic knowledge about the real world that is common to all humans; expressing it in a form that is systematic enough to be used by a computer program; and providing the program with techniques for effectively using that knowledge. My work has focused primarily on spatial and physical reasoning, but I have also looked at reasoning about knowledge, belief, plans, and goals, and their interaction with physical reasoning. Current research projects Reasoning about Containers Ontology of Matter and other Physical Reasoning Qualitative Spatial Reasoning Commonsense Reasoning and Text Comprehension Commonsense Reasoning and Probability Theory If you are interested in commonsense reasoning, you should check out the recent symposium Commonsense 2017. You might also like to look at the Common Sense Problem Page, the Winograd Schema Challenge, and the CACM 2015 article surveying the state of the art by Gary Marcus and me. Publications Books Complete List of Research Papers Research Papers with Abstracts Surveys and Essays Book Reviews Writing for a General Audience Recreational Writing Presentations Videos Curriculum Vitae Non-technical Writing I write book reviews (frequently) and opinion pieces (occasionally), on topics ranging across computer science, mathematics, cognitive psychology, history of science, scientific biography, digital humanities, invented languages, and children's literature. These have been published in SIAM News, Computing Reviews, American Scientist, Mythprint, The New York Times, The Times Literary Supplement, The Financial Times, and the online New Yorker. I have also written a small collection of light verse entitled Verses for the Information Age. Personal and Family Material 
