 Loading... Menu back to home Personal Bio Timeline Contact Me Dennis Shasha Prof, Computer Science Dept Department of Computer Science Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences New York University Also, Associate director, NYU WIRELESS. shasha@cs.nyu.edu Personal Bio Timeline Contact Me about I do research in biological computing (including experimental design), pattern recognition and querying in trees and graphs, pattern discovery in time series, cryptographic file systems, database tuning, and wireless . See Research Activity in brief . If you want a truly stimulating reading experience, try my resume in pdf. Books For excerpts of my book (with journalist Cathy Lazere) of biographies of great computer scientists, see Out of Their Minds: the lives and discoveries of 15 great computer scientists (book published by Copernicus/Springer Verlag). Natural Computing In 2010, we published Natural Computing a book about the ongoing synthesis between computing and biology. Here is a little video preview (you will have to poke around to find it) Puzzles I have also had the pleasure of writing a mathematical puzzle column for Dr. Dobb's Journal whose readers are very sharp and continue to write the Puzzling Adventures Column for Scientific American . The puzzle-writing has led to six books about a mathematical detective named Dr. Ecco. Try them if you dare. Starting in the fall of 2014, I have become the puzzle columnist of the Communications of the ACM (CACM). Database Tuning Professionally, I have written two books about database tuning. The second, co-authored with Philippe Bonnet, appeared in May, 2002 and is called Database Tuning: principles, experiments, and troubleshooting techniques (published by Morgan Kaufmann). We have been updating material on that topic ever since. Books with Students In 2004, I wrote a book with my excellent PhD student Yunyue Zhu entitled High Performance Discovery in Time Series: techniques and case studies published by Springer Verlag Publishers in June 2004. More recently, I have written two books with Masters students on computational biology/bioinformatics: Stored Clocked Programs Inside DNA: a simplifying framework for Nanocomputing with Jessie Chang published by Morgan Claypool in 2011 and Network Inference in Molecular Biology -- a hands-on framework with Jesse Lingeman published by Springer in 2012. Bioinformatics Edited Collections With the extremely energetic Jason Wang and other colleagues, I have helped co-edit two books in bioinformatics: 1. Pattern Discovery in Biomolecular Data: Tools, Techniques, and Applications Jason Wang, Bruce Shapiro, and Dennis Shasha (Eds.) Oxford University Press, November, 1999. 2. Data Mining in Bioinformatics J. T. L. Wang, M. J. Zaki, H. T. T. Toivonen and D. Shasha (eds.), 350 pages, Springer-Verlag, August 2004. Statistics is Easy In my work with biologists, I find myself needing statistics. Because I find that academic statistics books tend to make the subject overly complex and lay statistics books tend to gloss assumptions (e.g. about normality) Manda Wilson and I have written a short book entitled Statistics is Easy! that uses a resampling approach to statistics (thus avoiding distribution assumptions) and explains most of the concepts using counting. The book also contains a link to python code that implements the statistics we discuss in the book. Please take a look at an excerpt. Russian Immigrants Because I was so fascinated by the Russian students we've had at NYU, I have co-authored with Marina Shron (a playwright born in St. Petersburg), Red Blues: voices from the last wave of Russian immigrants Here is an excerpt from that book . Technical Reports by the Department Here is a link to the technical reports offered by the department. NYU Computer Science Tech Reports Designer of this Website This website was designed by my son Tyler and his company OmniNerds . He also designed the site of Grace & Sha , where you can find some music which I co-wrote with the beautiful singer Grace. Here you can find more of our music videos. download resume Contact Me Timeline education 1984 Doctorate Ph.D. Harvard University in applied mathematics Dissertation Advisor: N. Goodman 1980 Masters M.Sc. Syracuse University (overlapped work at IBM Data Systems Division) 1977 Bachelors B.Sc. Yale University (Electrical Engineering) Academic/Consulting 2015 INRIA International Chair (2015-2019) 2014 ACM Fellow 2001-2014 ShieldIP Startup co-founded with Michael Rabin (CEO Yossi Beinart and wonderful co-workers Carl Bosley, Ramon Caceres, Aaron Ingram, Timir Karia, David Molnar, and Sean Rollinson) to combat piracy while protecting privacy. Great technology developed but we didn't understand the incentives of the industry. Patents sold in 2014. 1995-Present Professor at New York University Professor of Computer Science Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences 1995-2000 Database Research Database Research Collaboration Lucent Bell Laboratories and Bell Communication Research 1990-1995 Associate Professor at New York University Associate Professor of Computer Science Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences New York University 19911992, 19981999, 20062007 Invited Professor During Sabbatical Year Invited Professor at INRIA Roquencourt, France 1991-Present Database tuning and design consulting Wall Street investment banks, Internet gaming, and biotech. Primary clients: Morgan-Stanley, JP Morgan, Interactive Imaginations, and Union Bank of Switzerland. Also TRW, NCR, Bull, Bellcore, and the RATP (Paris rapid transit). Lastminute.com. Relational systems mainly 19871995 Bell Labs Consultant AT&T Bell Laboratories, Unix System Laboratories, and Novell Consulting work on transaction processing (concurrency control and recovery) and future UNIX kernel development. 19871991 (Pro Bono) Technical Consultant Ellis Island Restoration Commission Technical consultant (pro bono work) for the design of the Immigrant Database Management System. 1984-1990 Assistant Professor at New York University Assistant Professor of Computer Science Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences New York University 19771980 IBM Hardware Engineer IBM Data Systems Division Hardware and microcode design of arithmetic, interrupt, and processor-to-channel communication for the IBM 3090 central processor. Also responsible for self-diagnosing circuit design. download resume Contact Me contact Postal Address Phones Postal Address 251 Mercer Street New York, NY 10012, U.S.A. (voice) 212.998.3086 212.998.3078 (fax) 212.995-4123 Email (the best way to reach me) shasha@cs.nyu.edu Your message was sent succssfully! Something went wrong, try refreshing and submitting the form again. BESbswy
