I have no home. The world is my home. -- Paul Erdos It suffices that a book be possible for it to exist. -- Jorge Luis Borges Joel Spencer Joel Spencer Silver Professor Computer Science and Mathematics Depts Email: {lowercaselastname}@cims.nyu.edu Department of Computer Science and Department of Mathematics Courant Institute , New York University Contact Room 829, 251 Mercer St. New York, NY 10012, U.S.A. 212-998-3219 (voice) 212-995-4124 (fax)-- but email is MUCH better CV/Papers/Talks Vita--Selected Work (short form) Vita--Publication List (long form) Papers Description of selected papers. Vita and those papers in postscript. Talks Slides for various talks. Course Information In Spring 2019 I will teach MATH-UA 349 HON ALG II MW 11:00AM 12:15PM Click here for informaion. Asymptopia Asymtpopia has been published by the American Math Society. Click here for a poster (Design: Danielle Spencer) This book is aimed at strong undergraduates, though it is also suitable for particularly good high school students or for graduates (or senior faculty!) wanting to learn some basic techniques. From the back cover: Asymptotics in one form or another are part of the landscape for every mathematician. The objective of this book is to present the ideas of how to approach asymptotic problems that arise in discrete mathematics, analysis of algorithms, and number theory. A broad range of topics is covered, including distribution of prime integers, Erdos Magic, random graphs, Ramsey numbers, and asymptotic geometry. The author is a disciple of Paul Erdos, who taught him about Asymptopia. Primes less than n, graphs with v vertices, random walks of t steps--Erdos was fascinated by the limiting behavior as the variables approached, but never reached, infinity. Asymptotics is very much an art. The various functions nlnn, n^2, (ln n)/n, \sqrt{\ln n}, ln(ln n) all have distinct personalities. Erdos knew these functions as personal friends. It is the author's hope that these insights may be passed on, that the reader may similarly feel which function has the right temperament for a given task. Asymptopia is a beautiful world. Enjoy! For ordering information from AMS (also available on Amazon) click here Click (Material will be slightly different from the text here and below) for preface Click here for Chapter 0 on primes Click here for Chapter 1 on Stirling's Formula Chapters: An Infinity of Primes; Stirling's Formula; Big Oh, Little Oh and All That; Integration in Asymptopia; From Integrals to Sums; Asymptotics of Binomial Coefficients; Unicyclic Graphs; Ramsey Numbers; Large Deviations; Primes; Asymptotic Geometry; Algorithms; Potpourri; Really Big Numbers! The Probabilistic Method -- Fourth Edition The FOURTH Edition of The Probabilistic Method is here! Click here for the Wiley website. Click here for Table of Contents toc Click here for the algorithmic version of the Lovasz Local Lemma fixit Click here for the Szemeredi Regularity Lemma szem Click here for an all new section on Graphons graphans Click here for an algorithmic approach to discrepency sixsigma Click here for an appreciation of Paul Erdos erdos Click here Hannah1 Hannah2 for our most beautiful and most attentive reader. She's a fox! And, in strong competition: johanna and jazmin and emily alsoemily1 alsoemily2 joe SPECIAL OFFER: Yes, your child (grandchild, niece, nephew, sibling) can have an Erdos Number of 1+\sqrt{-1}! Just send a photo of him/her absorbed in reading/playing/teething our book and I'll post it! Photos Photo by MA Click for family photos , or a photo of Paul Erdos . High School MathCamps This is a topic dear to my heart. I am former chair of an AMS committee that gives grants to High School Math Camps. Click for camp information or for information about donations to a worthy cause! Some Links My Wikipedia page Erdos Wikipedia page Danielle (daughter's) website David (son's) website Erdos Number Project Budapest Semesters in Mathematics Combinatorialist Quotes on Combinatorics [ TOP ] 
