 Lakshminarayanan Subramanian Professor Computer Science Department Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences Toggle navigation Menu Home Papers Selected Publications All Publications Teaching Research Groups Open Networks and Big Data Lab NYU Systems Students Bio Lakshminarayanan Subramanian is a Professor in the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences at NYU. His research interests are in the areas of networked systems and data science with applications in computing for development (also referred by the acronymn ICTD). He leads the Open Networks and Big Data Lab and is a member of the NYU Systems group. He is associated with the Center for Technology and Economic Development , Center for Data Science and NYU WIRELESS . He is a Co-founder and Chief Scientist at Entrupy Inc , a startup that uses machine vision algorithms and microscopy to authenticate physical goods and enable trustworthy commerce. Research group : Open Networks and Big Data Lab Research Links : Open Networks and Big Data . People : Talal Ahmad (Ph.D. student), Ananth Balashankar (Ph.D. student), Shiva R. Iyer (Ph.D. student), Yan Shvartzshnaider (Post Doc), Mukund Sudarshan (Ph.D. student). Research Open Networks Next-gen Networks Distributed Network Services Mobile Network Stack [SIGCOMM 2015] [EuroSys 2014] Security and Privacy PRIVACI [HCOMP 2016] Big Data Crowds Dengue outbreak prediction [Science Advances 2016] Mobile Urban Sensing, Informatics and Control Socio-economic Inference Event Analytics from News Data [KDD 2016] [EMNLP 2016] [GlobalSIP 2016] Reputations and Human Computation [NIPS 2014] Recent and Selected Publications Fine-Grained Dengue Forecasting using Telephone Triage Services Nabeel Abdur Rehman, Shankar Kalyanaraman, Talal Ahmad, Fahad Pervaiz, Umar Saif, Lakshminarayanan Subramanian. Science Advances . 08 July 2016. [pdf] The Effects of the Content of FOMC Communications on US Treasury Rates . Sunandan Chakraborty, Christopher Rohlfs, Lakshminarayanan Subramanian. EMNLP 2016. (short paper) [pdf] Predicting Socio-Economic Indicators using News Events . Sunandan Chakraborty, Ashwin Venkataraman, Srikanth Jagabathula, Lakshminarayanan Subramanian. KDD 2016 . [pdf] Adaptive Congestion Control for Unpredictable Cellular Networks . Yasir Zaki, Thomas Potsch, Jay Chen, Carmelita Goerg, Lakshminarayanan Subramanian. ACM SIGCOMM 2015 . [pdf] Reputation-based Worker Filtering in Crowdsourcing . Srikanth Jagabathula, Lakshminarayanan Subramanian, Ashwin Venkataraman (alphabetical order). NIPS 2014 . [pdf] 60, 5th Ave, Room 416 New York, NY 10011 Phone: (212) 998-3485 Fax: (212) 995-4123 Email: lakshmi,cs,nyu,edu 
