 Stanley C. Ahalt is a Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Director of the Renaissance Computing Institute. He became RENCI director in September 2009. He comes to RENCI from Ohio, where he served as executive director of the Ohio Supercomputer Center (OSC) from 2003 2009 and as a professor in the department of electrical and computer engineering at The Ohio State University for 22 years. Since coming to Carolina, Ahalt has developed key partnerships between RENCI and computer science and developed research partnerships involving RENCI, the UNC School of Medicine, the UNC School of Information and Library Sciences, and various research units at North Carolina State and Duke universities. He is a member of Microsofts Technical Computing Advisory Committee and will begin a term as president of the Board of the Great Lakes Consortium for Petascale Computation (GLCPC) in fall 2011. He currently chairs the GLCPC Allocation Committee. Ahalt chairs the subcommittee on regional computing centers for the National Science Foundation Taskforce on High Performance Computing and was a key contributor to the NSF Data and Visualization and Campus Bridging Task Force reports, two of the six reports that comprise the NSF-wide Advisory Committee for Cyberinfrastructure reports published in April, 2011. He chaired the Coalition for Academic Scientific Computation (CASC) in 2009 and 2010, served as a member of the Board for National Lambda Rail, a major network for advanced research and innovation, and has been a member of the Council on Competitiveness High Performance Computing Advisory Committee since 2004. Dr. Ahalt launched several model programs at OSC, including Blue Collar Computing, a national program to bring high performance computing to a wide spectrum of industries and applications, and OSCnet, a leading high-speed research network for K-12 schools, higher education and economic development. He also served as co-chair of the Ohio Broadband Council, the coordinating body for the states initiative to extend the reach of the Broadband Ohio Network. Dr. Ahalts research expertise involves neural networks, high performance computing, signal/image/video processing and object identification. He has authored or co-authored more than 120 technical papers and been principal investigator or co-principal investigator on research grants totaling nearly $17 million. Dr. Ahalt also served as the academic lead in the area of signal and image processing for the Department of Defense High Performance Computing Modernization Program. He collaborates with a variety of organizations in his research programs, including the Army Research Laboratory, Wright Patterson Air Force Base and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. As a member of the Ohio State faculty, Dr. Ahalt co-founded the Information Processing Systems Laboratory. He received the OSU Lumley Research Award in 1997 and the OSU College of Engineering Research Award in 1999. A native of Virginia, Dr. Ahalt holds a Ph.D. in electrical and computer engineering from Clemson University and masters and bachelors degrees in electrical engineering from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. 
