 Dinesh Manocha received his B.Tech. degree in computer science and engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi in 1987; M.S. and Ph.D. in computer science at the University of California at Berkeley in 1990 and 1992, respectively. He received Alfred and Chella D. Moore fellowship and IBM graduate fellowship in 1988 and 1991, respectively, and a Junior Faculty Award in 1992. He was selected an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellow, received NSF Career Award in 1995 and Office of Naval Research Young Investigator Award in 1996, Honda Research Initiation Award in 1997, and Hettleman Prize for scholarly achievement at UNC Chapel Hill in 1998. He has also received 12 best paper and panel awards at the ACM SuperComputing, ACM Multimedia, ACM Solid Modeling, Pacific Graphics, IEEE VR, IEEE Visualization, Eurographics, ACM SIGMOD, ACM VRST, CAD, I/ITSEC Conferences. He is a Fellow of ACM (Associations for Computing Machinery), AAAS (American Association for the Advancement of Science) and IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers). He received Distinguished Alumni Award from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi. His research interests include geometric and solid modeling, interactive computer graphics, and robotics. His research has been sponsored by more than 60 grants from ARO, DARPA, Disney, DOE, Honda, IARPA, Intel, Microsoft, NSF, NVidia, ONR, Sloan Foundation, Willow Garage, etc. He has published more than 320 papers in leading conferences and journals on computer graphics, geometric and solid modeling, robotics, symbolic and numeric computation, virtual reality, molecular modeling and computational geometry.His research group has developed many well-known software packages for collision detection, triangulation, GPU-based algorithms, solid modeling, crowd simulation and scientific computation. These packages have been downloaded by more than 100,000 users worldwide and licensed to more than 50industrial organizations including Intel, Microsoft, Disney, Ford, Kawasaki, Siemens, Electronic Arts, Phillips Labs, MSC Software, Lockheed Martin, Raytheon etc.He has served as a program committee member for more than 90 leading conferences on virtual reality, computer graphics, computational geometry, geometric and solid modeling, animation and molecular modeling. He has served as program co-chair for the ACM SIGGRAPH workshop on simulation and interaction in virtual environments, ACM Workshop on Applied Computational Geometry, Pacific Graphics, ACM Symposiums on Solid and Physical Modeling, Edge Computing Workshop and ACM Workshop on GPGP. He has served on the editorial boards of IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, Graphical Models and Imaging Processing, Journal of Applicable Algebra, ACM Transactions on Graphics, International Journal of High Performance Computing and Applications, and guest co-editor for special issues of Computer-Aided Design, Computer-Aided Geometric Design, IEEE TASE, IEEE CG & A, Parallel Computing, and Proceedings of IEEE. He has supervised more than 45 M.S. and Ph.D. students at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 
