 Martin Styner is a research associate professor in the Department of Computer Science with a joint appointment as an assistant professor in the Department of Psychiatry at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC). He is the co-director of the UNC Neuro Image Research and Analysis Laboratory and associate director of the Developmental Neuroimaging Core in the Carolina Institute for Developmental Disabilities at UNC. Dr. Styner began his research in the field of medical image analysis in 1994 as a graduate student at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology ETH Zurich, Switzerland. He received his Masters in 1997 from ETH Zurich and subsequently his Ph.D. in 2001 from UNC. From 2001-2002, Dr. Styner held the position of project leader at the Duke Image Analysis Laboratory in Durham, N.C. In 2002, he founded a thriving research group in Medical Image Analysis and headed it for two years at the M.E. Mller Research Center, University of Bern, Switzerland. In 2004, Dr. Styner joined the faculty at the University of North. He has participated in leading positions in several national and international projects with close interdisciplinary cooperation with researchers in the fields of medicine, engineering, industry and computer science. He is further the UNC PI of the National Alliance for Medical Image Computing which is part NIH Roadmap Initiative. His main field of research is in medical image processing and analysis. He has an extensive background in anatomical structure and tissue segmentation, morphometry using shape analysis, modeling and atlas building, diffusion tensor image analysis as well as intra and inter-modality registration. His current research focuses on structural and connectivity based brain analysis within the developing brain in humans, primates and rodents. Martin Styner has co-authored over 60 papers in peer reviewed journals and over 80 papers in peer reviewed conferences. He is on the editorial board of Medical Image Analysis, the premier journal in the field of medical image analysis. 
