 Home Grants Awarded Publications Students Awards and Honors Professional activites David Hung-Chang Du Professor Qwest Chair Professor Department of Computer Science and Engineering University of Minnesota, Twin Cities C.V. Bio Dr. Du is currently the Qwest Chair Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at University of Minnesota, Minneapolis. He is the Center Director of the NSF multi-university I/UCRC Center of Research in Intelligent Storage (CRIS) . In additional to NSF, CRIS is currently sponsored with 9 companies with 15 sponsored memberships including Intel, IBM, HPE, Dell/EMC, Seagate, Veritas, Samsung, Huawei and Salesforce. He was a Program Director (IPA) at National Science Foundation CISE/CNS Division from March 2006 to August 2008. At NSF, he was responsible for NeTS (Networking Research cluster) NOSS (Networks of Sensor Systems) Program and worked with two other colleagues, Karl Levitt and Ralph Wachter, on Cyber Trust (Internet Security) Program. Dr. Du receives a B.S degree in Mathematics from National Tsing-Hua University (Taiwan) in 1974 and an M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from University of Washington (Seattle) in 1980 and 1981 respectively. He joined University of Minnesota as a faculty since 1981. Dr. Du also has been a visiting professor in Germany, Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Research Expertise Dus current research focuses on intelligent storage systems, sensor/vehicular networks and cyber physical systems. He has had research in high-speed networking, database design, multimedia computing and CAD for VLSI circuits. He has authored and co-authored over 300 technical papers including 140 referred journal publications in these research areas. He has graduated 60 Ph.D. and 100+ M.S. students in the last 30 years. His research in intelligent storage systems focus on new storage technologies/architectures, that can handle semantic data and adaptive to long-term data preservation, and efficient power management for data centers. His research in sensor/vehicular networks and cyber physical systems focuses on vehicle-to-vehicle communications, future intelligent transportation systems, next generation air-transportation systems and security and privacy issues for cyber physical systems. His group is currently focusing on research issues on hyperconverging (seamless integrating compute, storage and network in a single IT infrastructure and using AI and machine learning approaches of solving challenging systems management issues. Contact Email: du at umn.edu Phone: (612) 625-2560 Address: 4-192 Keller Hall, 200 Union Street SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 Office: Keller 4-225B & 421 Walter 
