 Stephen J. Guy: Research interests - Graphics, Animation, AI, Robotics sjguy@cs.umn.edu Director Applied Motion Lab http://motion.cs.umn.edu Address: 4-192 Keller Hall 200 Union St SE Minneapolis, MN 55455 Office Keller 5-225F Phone: (612) 625-3368 NEWS: Our work modeling smiles was featured in a joke on Late Night with Seth Meyers . NEWS: Our recent work in modeling human faces has been covered by The Guardian , Popular Science , Science , and others. NEWS: Our work in pedestrian modeling has been published in Physical Review Letters (PRL) and has received wide press coverage including: Physics , Nature News , Science News , and The Boston Globe . NEWS: Videos from our recent work in pedestrian modeling are being featured in the American Physical Society's annual video gallery . Research Overview [PPTX] Video highlights: 2014 [MP4] [M4V] , 2013 [YouTube] [WMV] [MPG] , 2012 [MOV] Selected Publications: Implicit Crowds: Optimization Integrator for Robust Crowd Simulation , I. Karamouzas, N. Sohre, R. Narain, S. J. Guy, Siggraph 2017. [ WEB ] C-OPT: Coverage-Aware Trajectory Optimization Under Uncertainty , B. Davis, I. Karamouzas, S. J. Guy, Robotics and Automation Letters (RA-L) 2016. [ PDF ] Universal Power Law Governing Pedestrian Interaction , I. Karamouzas, B. Skinner, S. J. Guy, Physical Review Letters (PRL) 2014. [ WEB ] A data-driven framework for visual crowd analysis , P. Charalambous, I. Karamouzas, S. J. Guy, Y. Chrysanthou, Pacific Graphics (CGF) 2014. [ PDF ] User-Driven Narrative Variation in Large Story Domains using Monte Carlo Tree Search , B. Kartal, J. Koenig, S. J. Guy, AAMAS 2014. [ PDF ] Velocity-based modeling of physical interactions in multi-agent simulations. , S. Kim, S. J. Guy, D. Manocha, SCA 2013. [ PDF ] A Statistical Similarity Measure for Aggregate Crowd Dynamics , S. J. Guy, J. van den Berg, W. Liu, R. Lau, M. C. Lin, D. Manocha, Siggraph Asia 2012. [ PDF ] Recent Courses: Animation and Planning in Games (CSCI 5611), Spring 2017 Intro. to Programming Concepts - Honors (CSCI 1133H), Fall 2016 Experimental Game Technologies (CSCI 8980), Spring 2016 Animation and Planning in Games (CSCI 5611), Fall 2015 Foundations of Computer Graphics (CSCI 5607), Fall 2014 Intro. to Programming Concepts (CSCI 1133), Spring 2013 Animation and Planning in Games (CSCI 5980-003), Fall 2013 [PDF] [Home page] Bio: (Full CV ) Stephen J. Guy is an associate professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Minnesota. His research focuses on the areas of interactive computer graphics (real-time crowd simulation, path planning, intelligent virtual characters) and multi-robot coordination (collision avoidance, sensor fusion, path planning under uncertainty). Stephen's work on motion planning has been licensed for use in games and virtual environments by Relic Entertainment, EA, and other companies; his work in crowd simulation has been recognized by best paper awards at international conferences. Prior to joining Minnesota, he received his Ph.D. in Computer Science in 2012 from the University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill with support from fellowships from Google, Intel, and the UNCF, and his B.S. in Computer Engineering with honors from the University of Virginia in 2006. Prospective Students: I always look forward to meeting and collaborating with new students. I have a wide variety of interests (games, robots, AI, graphics, simulations, ...), and am always excited about new ideas in these fields. If you are interested in discussing any of these areas, feel free to stop by my office or e-mail me to schedule an appointment. I'm particularly seeking students who have previous experienced with comercial 3D modeling & animation packages, as well as hands on robotics work. If you are interested in joining me as a graduate student, I'd love to discuss how your research interests may potentially fit with my lab. In general, e-mail is the best way to contact me (and most other professors); David Evans has some great advice on how to do this productively -- I strongly recommend reading this before contacting any professor about graduate school. 
