 Tian He Professor, ACM and IEEE Fellow Department of Computer Science and Engineering Affiliate with Digital Technology Center Gradu ate faculty in Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Minnesota 4-205 EE/CSci Building 200 Union Street SE Minneapolis, MN 55455 Email: tianhe at cs.umn.edu Office: (612) 626-1281 Fax: (612) 625-0572 Home Research Publication Teaching Service Release News! Our group won the best paper award from ICDCS 2018 (1 out of 378 submissions) for work titled "Symbol-level Cross-technology Communication via Payload Encoding". This work demonstrates the feasibility of reverse cross-technology communication from low-end devices (ZigBee) to high-end devices (Wi-Fi) Our group won the best paper award from MobiCom 2017 (1 out of 186 submissions) for work titled "WEBee: Physical-Layer Cross-Technology Communication via Emulation". WEBee video can be found here . WEBee release and technical support can be found here . Here are the slides and conference talk video . Our group won the best paper award from SenSys 2017 (1 out of 151 submissions) for work titled "SmartLight: Light-weight 3D Indoor Localization Using a Single LED Lamp". It is the first pure digital approach for 3D indoor localization. Congratulations to Desheng Zhang for successfully landing tenure-track assistant professorship in Rutgers University (US News Rank 34). So far, eight students from the group joined reputable universities as tenure-track assistant professors in the first employment. Congratulations to Song Min Kim for successfully landing tenure-track assistant professorship in George Manson University (US News Rank 67). I will recruit multiple Ph.D. students fall 2018. If you are self-motivated, diligent with a strong system background and (of course) interested, please mention my name in the cover letter of the application package to the department. more information about our MiNDs group, please check http://tianhe.cs.umn.edu , Thanks! Short Biography Dr. Tian He is currently a full professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Minnesota-Twin Cities. He received the Ph.D. degree under Professor John A. Stankovic from th e University of Virginia, Virginia. Dr. He is the author and co-author of over 280 papers in premier network journals and conferences with over 22,000 citations (H-Index 65). Dr. He is the recipient of the NSF CAREER Award (2009), McKnight Land-Grant Chaired Professorship (2011), George W. Taylor Distinguished Research Award (2015), China NSF Outstanding Overseas Young Researcher I and II (2012 and 2016), and eight best paper awards in international conferences including MobiCom, SenSys, and ICDCS. Dr. He has served a few general/program chair positions in international conferences and on many program committees and also has been an editorial board member for six international journals including ACM Transactions on Sensor Networks, IEEE Transactions on Computers and IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking. His research includes wireless networks, networked sensing systems, cyber-physical systems, Internet of Things (IOT), and distributed systems in general. He is an ACM and IEEE Fellow. Research Awards Best Paper Award, ICDCS 2018 Best Paper Award, MobiCom 2017 Best Paper Award, SenSys 2017 George W. Taylor Distinguished Research Award, 2015 Distinguished Nokia Sensing X-CHALLENGE Award, 2014 K. C. Wong Award, Chinese Academia of Science, 2012 China NSF Outstanding Overseas Young Researcher (Information Technology), NSFC, 2012 and 2016 NSF CAREER Award 2009 McKnight Land-Grant Professorship Award, 2009 Best Paper Award, The Seventh Int. Conference on Mobile Ad-hoc and Sensor Networks (MSN) Best Paper Award, The Tenth Int. Conference on Mobile Data Management (MDM) Best Paper Award, The Fifth IEEE Int. Conference on Mobile Ad-hoc and Sensor Systems (MASS) Best Paper Award, The Second Int. Conference on Mobile Ad-hoc and Sensor Networks (MSN) Best Paper Award, The Fourth ACM Workshop on Security of Ad Hoc and Sensor Networks (SASN) Outstanding Graduate Research Award, Computer Science Department , University of Virginia. HuaWei Outstanding Graduate Research Award,Chinese Academia of Science , China. 
