 Home METIS CLUTO BDMPI Forums Navigation Menu Home Research Projects Software Publications Education Lab Information Welcome I'm George Karypis, a Professor at the Department of Computer Science & Engineering at the University of Minnesota in the Twin Cities of Minneapolis and Saint Paul and a member of the Digital Technology Center (DTC) at the University of Minnesota. Research My research interests are concentrated in the areas of data mining , recommender systems , learning analytics , high-performance computing , and chemical informatics and from time-to-time, I look at various problems in the areas of health informatics , information retrieval , bioinformatics , and scientific computing . Within these areas, my research focuses in developing novel algorithms for solving important existing and/or emerging problems, and on developing practical software tools implementing some of these algorithms. The results from this research have been presented in various conferences and published in leading peer reviewed journals and highly selective conference proceedings. Read more Education, Mentoring, and Advising I take great joy in teaching, advising, and mentoring undergraduate and graduate students and I consider it to be one of the perks of my job. My greatest pleasure and ultimate job satisfaction comes at those points during a course at which my students transition from simply listening and reading the material to actually understanding them, grasping them, internalizing them, and seeing how they fit within the general computer science discipline and how they are applied to solve real problems in real applications. Read more We will be slowly moving our codes to KarypisLab's GitHub repository . (3/20/18) A new release of the OpenMP version of Metis is now available. (10/30/16) Tensor completion routines have been added in SPLATT. (9/1/16) Release of L2Knng for computing the k-nn nearest graph a set of sparse vectors. (9/1/15) A new release of BDMPI (Big Data Message Passing Interface) is now available. (8/5/15) Recent publications Text segmentation on multilabel documents: A distant-supervised approach Feature extraction for classifying students based on their academic performance Local Latent Space Models for Top-N Recommendation HPC formulations of optimization algorithms for tensor completion Streaming Tensor Factorization for Infinite Data Sources more Copyright 2006-2015, George Karypis. Internal Lab Website - - 
