 daniel f. keefe, ph.d. ivlab.cs.umn.edu about me. contact me. work with me. More... projects. Vis-by-Sketching Orbacles with MINN_LAB Brain Imaging Ancient Greek Oratorical Performance in Virtual Reality CavePainting 1 Trajectory Mapper Anchored Gestures Tangible UI SliceWIM Motion Perception in VR Weather Report Design by Dragging Inside the Heart Bema Helical Axes of Motion Force Brushes Shape Matching Surgical Training Managing Pain with VR VisWeek 2011 Art Show Motion Trends about me. I am an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineeringat the University of Minnesota where I direct a research program in data visualization, interactive computer graphics, and spatialuser interfaces that we call the Interactive Visualization Lab (IV/LAB) . RESEARCH OVERVIEW My research explores a broad range of topics in the areas of visualization, computer graphics, and human-computer interaction. I am interested in questions, such as: (1) How can computer graphics most effectively leverage the power of the human visual system to facilitate understanding large multidimensional datasets? (2) To what extent can visualizations exploit emerging interface technologies to improve users abilities to design complex 3D structures and reason about data? Current projects within my group center on: augmented reality visualization and data physicalization, ensemble visualization for climate science and brain imaging, low-cost VR for health interventions, and basic research in 3D user interfaces, haptics, and pen and multi-touch input techniques. My group regularly teams with scientists, engineers, artists, and designers to apply the computer science techniques we develop to interdisciplinary problems. Our research has beensupported by the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the National Academies Keck Futures Initiative, industry, and the Digital Technology Center and Office of the Vice President for Research at the University of Minnesota. For complete info on research, visit the IV/LAB web page . SHORT BIO AND RECENT AWARDS Dan Keefe is an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Minnesota. His research centers on scientific data visualization and interactive computer graphics. Keefes recent awards include the National Science Foundation CAREER award; the University of Minnesota Guillermo E. Borja Award for research and scholarly accomplishments; the University of Minnesota McKnight Land-Grant Professorship; and the 3M Non-tenured Faculty Award. He has received multiple best paper and best panel awards at top international conferences, such as IEEE VIS and ACM Interactive 3D Graphics. His research has been funded by the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the National Academies Keck Futures Initiative, and industry sponsors. In addition to his work in computer science, Keefe is also an accomplished artist and has published and exhibited work in top international venues for digital art. Before joining the University of Minnesota, Keefe did post-doctoral work at Brown University jointly with the departments of Computer Science and Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and with the Rhode Island School of Design. He received the Ph.D. in 2007 from Brown Universitys Department of Computer Science and the B.S. in Computer Engineering summa cum laude from Tufts University in 1999. TEACHING I regularly teach the following courses: CSci-3081W: Program Design and Development CSci-4611: Programming Interactive Computer Graphics and Games CSci-5607: Fundamentals of Computer Graphics I CSci-5609: Visualization CSci-5619: Virtual Reality and 3D Interaction CSci-5980/8980: Special Topics (Past examples include: Computational Creativity, 3D Modeling, Spatial User Interfaces) Here is a list of course offerings by semester . contact me. Email: dfk@umn.edu (preferred) Phone: 612-626-7508 Mailing Address: 4-192 Keller Hall, 200 Union St. SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455 In Person: 6-211 Keller Hall I try to hold open office hours each week. Please make aneffort to seek me out during this specially scheduled time. The time may change on a weekly basis, however. So, please, double check my availability on the calendar below before planning to meet. These hours are first come, first serve. To get a general idea of how busy a given time will be, you can check this optional sign-up sheet .If you know youre planning to come on a particular day, feel free to put your name on it to help me know how busy it will be. However, you can also just show up. The signup is optional. If my door is open, even if I am speaking with somebody, you should come in and sit "around the campfire". You may hear something that will be useful in your own work (or maybe even have something to offer to help the other student!). If the door is closed, hang out in the hall area outside my office, Ill be with you soon. Dan's Weekly Office Hours Schedule Optional Office Hours Sign-Up Sheet 2018 Daniel F. Keefe This site was designed with the .com website builder. Create your website today. Start Now 
