 Y o u s e f S a a d College of Science & Engineering Distinguished Professor Department of Computer Science and Engineering University of Minnesota Quick Links Research: - Research projects - Technical reports - Research team - Recent presentations Teaching related... - Current Teaching - Books - Recent Tutorials Software: - Software page - pARMS - ITSOL and ZITSOL - SPARSKIT General: - Vita, contact info - Travel schedule Info: Contact, cv, pers., .. Current travel schedule Technical reports Recent presentations Research My research interests include: Sparse matrix computations, parallel algorithms, eigenvalue problems, matrix methods in materials science; Linear algebra methods for data analysis. My technical reports can be accessed in the PDF format. They are listed by year. A bibtex file "saad.bib" is also available. Books Click Here for information on my books (1) "Numerical methods for eigenvalue problems", Manchester University Press, (1992) (2) "Iterative Methods for Sparse Linear Systems", WPS, (1996); and (3) The 2003 edition of this book from SIAM. A revised edition of the first book has been publised with SIAM (Classics edition) and is also available for downloads. Software Several software packages for solving linear systems are available online. Go to the Software page for additional details and links. Here are the most important ones: SPARSKIT A basic tool-kit for sparse matrix computations (Written in fortran 77). pARMS , parallel Algebraic Recursive Multilevel Solver (pARMS) ITSOL , Iterative Solution module (now includes Zitsol the complex variant). Other packages and links to existing packages can be found in the Software page. Teaching Here are the main courses I tought in the past few years: Computational Aspects of Matrix Theory (csci 5304); Elementary Computational Linear Algebra (csci 2033); Analysis of numerical algorithms (csci 5302); Sparse matrix computations (csci 8314) ; and Introduction to Parallel Computing (csci 5451). Lecture notes are generally posted on the Teaching web-site for the year when the course is taught. I also post recent tutorials given - generally on topics in numerical linear algebra. 
