Skip To... Skip To Main Content Nav Page Outline h1: Junaed Sattar h2: IRVLab Website Go to the U of M home page One Stop MyU : For Students, Faculty, and Staff Search search MENU menu Home Bio Students add For prospective students Teaching Junaed Sattar Computer Science and Engineering Home Bio Students For prospective students Teaching Junaed Sattar Welcome to Junaed Sattar's home at the University of Minnesota! I am an Assistant Professor of Robotics and HRI at the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, and the founding director of the Minnesota Interactive Robotics and Vision Laboratory . I am also an MNDrive RSAM ( Min nesota D iscovery, R esearch and I nno v ation E conomy-- R obotics, S ensors and A dvanced M anufacturing initiative) faculty. My primary research focus is on making robots work safely and intuitively with people, so humans and robot can coexist and collaborate. This means looking into improving a robot's perception about people, their intentions and/or actions, engaging in dialog, as well as the environment. Perceiving the world robustly, particularly under changing and degraded conditions is an open challenge; my research interest extends into multi-modal sensory perception. My past research has been heavily influenced by making robots work with humans in unstructured environments, particularly underwater, and current and work involves field robots in the air, water and outdoor, all-terrain platforms. If you are a prospective graduate student interested in robotics/HRI/field robotics /vision (any or all of these), please read this first. Click on these links to find a list of publications and an updated resume . For specific information about my research and teaching, please browse through the links or visit the IRVLab website . Share IRVLab Website Junaed is associated with the Department of Computer Science & Engineering , the College of Science & Engineering and the MNDriveRSAM Initiative . For Students, Faculty, and Staff One Stop MyU 2019 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Privacy Statement Report Web Disability-Related Issue 
