 Lana Yarosh Lana's musings on Human-Computer Interaction Search Main menu Skip to primary content Home Blog Selected Publications Work With Me Contact Me About Me [ Short CV ] [ Full CV ] [ Google Scholar Profile ] [ High Resolution Photo ] [ Contact Information ] Short Bio: Svetlana Lana Yarosh is an Assistant Professor in the Computer Science & Engineering Department at University of Minnesota . Her research in HCI focuses on embodied interaction in social computing systems. Lana is currently most proud of getting both the NSF CRII and the NSF CAREER awards, of her best papers at CHI 2013 and CSWC 2014 , and of receiving the McKnight Land Grant Professorship . Lana hastwo Bachelors of Science from University of Maryland (in Computer Science and Psychology), a Ph.D. in Human-Centered Computing from Georgia Institute of Technology , and two years of industry research experience with AT&T Labs Research . My News: Nov 6th: My students and I presented FIVE (!!) papers at CSCW 2018 ! June 21st: Our paper on speech and kids received the Best Paper Award at IDC! May 30th: Upcoming summer travel: FCA meeting , IDC conference , HCI consortium . Hope to see and catch up with some folks there! Apr 5th: Check out this article about my Google FRA! Mar 3rd: I gave a keynote talk at InfoSocial 2018 Feb 21st: I received a Google Faculty Research Award Dec 8th: I received a Mozilla Awards Research Grant Nov 29th: I was on a segment on iQ SmartParent on WQED Sept 15th: My student received the Best Demo Award at UbiComp 2017 Aug 18th: I gave a talk at TEDxMinneapolis: see it on YouTube Aug 7th: My students and I had FOUR papers accepted to CSCW 2018! Jun 13th: Our paper received a Best Paper Award at DIS 2017 Apr 21st: I got accepted to the ACM Future of Computing Academy ! Mar 13th: My students paper on matchmaking technologies in conservative cultures has been accepted to DIS 2017 Feb 1st: I have received the NSF CAREER award ! Feb 1st: I have received the McKnight Land Grant Professorship Jan 16th: JMIR paper on participatory design of positive computing technologies with children is now live! Share this: Facebook 3 Reddit Twitter Google Proudly powered by WordPress 
