 Zhi-Li Zhang Qwest Chair Professor and McKnight Distinguished University Professor Department of Computer Science and Engineering University of Minnesota 4-192 Keller Hall 200 Union Street SE Minneapolis, MN 55416 Associate Director for Research, Digital Technology Center Digital Technology Center 499 Walter Library 117 Pleasant Street SE Minneapolis, MN 55455 Office: Keller Hall 6-187 and DTC 489 (where I spend most of my time these days) Phone: (612) 625-8568; Skype id: zhzhang612 Fax: (612) 625-0572 E-mail: zhzhang (at) cs (dot) umn (dot) edu (For faster response, please email me instead of leaving a voice mail!) Links:[ awards ], [ teaching ], [ research ], [ publications ], [ students ], [ professional services ], [ resume ], [short bio] Zhi-Li joined the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at University of Minnesota in January 1997, where he is now a Full Professor. He received his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in computer science from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst in 1992 and 1997 (Ph.D thesis advisors, Profs. Don Towsley and Jim Kurose . Zhi-Li graduated with B.S. in Computer Science with highest distinction from Nanjing University , Nanjing, China. After his B.S. from Nanjing University, China, he was awarded a highly selective fellowship from the Chinese National Committee for Education for graduate study in Europe, and studied at the Computer Science Department, rhus University , Denmark. Zhi-Li is a Fellow of IEEE. Awards and Honors Best Paper Award, ACM SIGCOMM 1st Asia-Pacific Workshop on Networking (APNET'17), 2017) Best Paper Award, SIMPLEX (2015) Best Paper Award, CNERT (2014) McKnight Distinguished University Professor (2013) Best Paper Award, RAID (2013) IEEE Fellow (2011) Best Paper Award, IEEE INFOCOM (2010) Qwest Chair Professorship (2007) IBM Faculty Partnership Award (2006 and 2007) College of Sciences and Engineering George Tayor Distinguished Research Award (2005) Miller Visiting Professor, Miller Institute for Basic Sciences , University of California, Berkeley (2004) McKnight Land-Grant Professor , University of Minnesota (2000-2002) National Science Foundation CAREER Award (1998) Best Paper Award, IEEE International Conference on Internet Protocol (ICNP'02) (2002) Best Paper Award for Best Integration of Theory and Practice, ACM SIGMETRICS (1996) Teaching Spring 2018: Introduction to Computer Networks (csci4211) Fall 2017: Advanced Computer Networks and Applications (Basic Architecture, Mechanisms and Research Issues in Emerging SDN Paradigm) (csci8211) Spring 2014: Foundations of Advanced Networking (csci5221) Fall 2013: Introduction to Computer Networks (csci4211) Spring 2013: Foundations of Advanced Networking (csci5221) Spring 2011: Foundations of Advanced Networking (csci5221) Fall 2010/Spring 2011: Introduction to Research in Computer Science I and II (csci8001/csci8002) Fall 2010: (undergraduate-level) Introduction to Computer Networks (csci4211) Spring 2010: Advanced Computer Networks and Applications (csci8211) Research Firs of all, I am always looking for self-motivated, creative and hard-working graduate and undergradtaue students (and also post-docs, when funding is available) to work with us on a number of research projects. If you are interested, please email me with the Subject line: "Interested in Ph.D (or MS, or undergraduate, or Post-Doc) Research Opportunities" , together with a short description of your background and research interests/experiences and a CV. Now a bit more about my research: My research interests lie broadly in computer communication and networks, Internet technology, multimedia and emerging applications. While my past research was centered on the analysis, design and development of scalable Internet QoS solutions to support performance-demanding multimedia applications, my current research thrusts focus primarily on i) building highly scalable, resilient and secure Internet infrastructure and mechanisms to enhance Internet service performance, availability, reliability, manageability and security; and on ii) developing next-generation, service-oriented, secure, manageable and economically viable Internet architectures to provide better support for creation, deployment, operations and management of value-added Internet services (e.g., large-scale mobile, cloud services and content (esp. video) delivery systems) and underlying networks. I am also interested in complex networks, social network analysis, robustness of critical infrastructure networks, and the interplay between socio-technical networks. Some of the ongoing research projects include: Diverse and Resilient Routing Beyond Paths (NSF project) Exerting Logically Centralized Control over Legacy Switches via Incremental SDN Deployment (NSF Project) Complex Interactions in the Content Distribution Ecosystem (Joint NSF Funded Large Project with UMASS, Amherst) Accelerating Service Function Chain via Parallelism (in collaboration with AT&T Labs -- Research) Modeling and Analysis of Large-scale Cascading Failures in Inter-Dependent Physical Networks via Dynamic Flow Models A list of select funded projects in the recent past, many of the research topics we are still pursuing: Multivariate Heavy-Tail Phenomena: Modeling, Diagnosis and Applications (a DoD MURI Collaborative Research Project) Understanding, Managing, Trouble-Shooting and Securing the Evolving Cellular Data Networks Spatio-Temporal Network Traffic Dynamics and Interactions of Networks and Applications VIRO: Highly Scalable, Robust and Namespace Independent Routing for Future Networks Network Traffic Intelligence, with Network Security Applications (in collaboration with Narus Inc.) Towards a Theory of Network Robustness and Inter-dependence under Attacks Machine Learning in Network Measurement and Trouble-shooting (in collaboration with AT&T Labs -- Research) focusing in particular on "Trouble-shooting Large-scale 3G Cellular Network Infrastructures" Progammable and Versatile Measurement Infrastructure for Future Internet Architecture Economic Viability of Future Internet Architectures A Framework for Manageability in Future Routing Systems Internet Traffic Profiling and Modeling, with Applications in Network Security and Management Toward a Service-Oriented Internet (SOI) Architecture --- in this research we were among the first to propose the notion of "(service) clouds," (in a sense, a forerunner of today's cloud computing and cloud services ), and proposed a novel service-oriented architecture with content/object-centric naming/addressing that targets specifically for effective and efficient cloud service discovery and content/object delivery (see our 2003 conference and 2006 IEICE inivted papers on service-oriented Internet (SOI) architecture). Wireless Mesh and Mobile Ad Hoc Networks Internet Quality of Service and Multimedia Networking I am leading the Networking Research Group . Here is a list of my ( not yet completely updated ) publications; You can find my most recent publications on my Google scholar page . Students Current Ph.D students who are working with me ( incomplete list): Bariya (Paris) Babaie Braulio Dumba Xinyue Hu Taihui Li Arvind Narayanan Eman Ramadan Tim Salo Feng Tian Nitin Varyani Saurabh Verma Yang Zhang Past Ph.D students who I advised or co-advised: Vijay Kumar Adhikari (Ph.D 2013, now with Microsoft Azure) Yingying Chen (Ph.D 2013, now with Microsoft Azure) Jin Cheng (Ph.D 2018, now with Facebook) Changho Choi (Ph.D 2007, now with Samsung Sillicon Valley Research Labs, CA; was with Cisco) Jaideep Chandrashekar (Ph.D 2005, now at the Technicolor Research Lab, Paris, France; was at Intel Research, Santa Clara and Berkeley Lab) Baek-Young Choi (Ph.D 2003, now Associate Professor at University of Missouri, Kansas City) Yingfei Dong (Ph.D 2003, now Full Professor at University of Hawaii) Zhenhai Duan (Ph.D 2003, now Associate Professor at Florida State University) Eric Eilertson (Ph.D 2007, co-advised with Prof. Vipin Kumar, Institute for Defense Analyses) Golshan Golnari (Ph.D 2017, now with 3M Inc.) Nan Jiang (Ph.D 2013, now at Uber, was at Amazon Inc.) Yu Jin (Ph.D 2011, now at Turn Inc.; was at AT&T Labs) Sourabh Jain (Ph.D 2011, now at Google; was at Instart Logic and Cisco) Sanghwan Lee (Ph.D 2005, now Assistant Professor at Kookmin University, Korea; was with IBM T.J Watson Research Center) Yanhua Li (Ph.D 2013, now at Worcester Polytechnic Institute) Haiyang Liu (Ph.D 2007, co-advised with Prof. Jaideep Srivastava, Honeywell Technology Labs) Guor-Huar Lu (Ph.D 2008, now at 3M, was with FAF Advisors/US Bank) Hesham Mekky (Ph.D 2016, now with Snapchat Inc.) Srihari Nelakuditi (Ph.D 2001, now Full Professor at University of South Carolina) Esam Sharafuddin (Ph.D 2011, now at Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi L.L.P. Law Firm) Gyan Ranjan (Ph.D 2013, now at Symmantec) Gyorgy Simon (Ph.D 2008, co-advised with Prof. Vipin Kumar, now at University of Minnesota, was with Mayo Clinic;Yahoo! Research) Sejun Song (Ph.D 2001, now Associate Professor at University of Missouri, Kansas City; was with Texas A&M University, Wichita State University and Cisco) Srivatsan Varadarajan (Ph.D 2004, co-advised with Prof. Jaideep Srivastava, now at Honeywell) Kuai Xu (Ph.D 2006, now Associate Professor at Arizona State University; was with Yahoo!) Yinzhe Yu (Ph.D 2005, now at Microsoft) Ting Zhu (Ph.D 2010, co-advised with Prof. Tian He, now Associate Professor at University of Maryland, Baltimore County; was with SUNY Binghamton University) Current and Past Visiting Scholars, Visiting Students and Post-Doc Fellows: Lei Chen (Tongji University, Shanghai, China) Zehua Guo (post-doc fellow) Dingde Jiang (Northeastern University, Shengyang, China) Sanghwan Lee (Kookmin University, Korea) Zhenhua Li (Peking University, China; now at Tsinghua University) Tao Lin (Institute of Computing, Chinese Academy of Science) Ngoc Tu Nguyen (post-doc fellow) Xiuli Shao (Nankai University, Tianjin, China) Mingda Wang (University of Electronic Science and Technology of China) Jiping Xiong (Zhejiang Normal University, China) Zhongliu Zhong ( University of Electronic Science and Technology of China) I am also working with -- and have worked with -- a number of talented M.S. graduate students as well as several undergraduate students on various research projects/topics. Recent Professional Services I am an Associate Editor for the ACM Transactions on Modeling and Performance Evaluation of Computing Systems ( TOMPECS ) and on the Advisory Board of Proceedings of ACM Series on Measurement and Analysis of Computing Systems (PACM MACS). I have also served on the Editorial Boards for the Springer Journal of Computational Social Networks, and Journal of Computer Sicience and Technology (JCST) published by the Chinese Academy of Natural Sciences. I was an Associate Editor for IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking (2001 -- 2009), and has also served on the Editorial Board of Computer Networks in the past (2001-2004). I have served on the Technical Program Committees of various conferences and workshops including ACM SIGCOMM, ACM SIGMETRICS, ACM MobiHoc, WWW, CoNext, ACM/USENIX IMC, IEEE INFOCOM, IEEE ICNP, IEEE Global Internet, IWQoS, ACM SIGCOMM Workshopn on Mining Network Data (MineNet) (2005-2006), ACM SIGMM, and numerous other conferences/workshops. I was Technical Program Committee co-chair for the ACM SIGMETRICS 2017, IEEE International Conference on Network Protocols 2013 (ICNP'13), IFIP Networking Conference 2013, ACM/USENIX Internet Measurement Conference 2008 (IMC'08), the IEEE INFOCOM'06 conference and IEEE/IFIP IWQoS'04. I also served as a Vice Co-Chair for IEEE ICDCS'13, chaired the track for "Crowd Sourcing and Social Networks" or co-chaired the "Software Infrastructure and Their Performance, Scalability and Availability" track for WWW 2013. I served on the Steering Committee of IEEE IWQoS conference and ACM Sigmetrics HotMetrics Workshop, and have also served on the Executive Committee for IEEE INFOCOM (2001, 2003, and 2006). Narus Fellow since 2007 ( Narus -- acquired by Symmantec -- is a proven pioneer in cyber security data analytics for enterprises, carriers, and governments around the world) I served on the Scientific Board of IMDEA Networks (a European Research Center in Telematics) from 2007-2010. I am a member of ACM and IEEE, and a Fellow of IEEE. Locations of Visitors 
