 E UGENE B . S HRAGOWITZ Professor Department of Computer Science and Engineering Office Phone: (612) 625 - 3368 Office Fax: (612) 625 - 0572 E-mail: shragowi@cs.umn.edu S PECIALTIES Computer Engineering Computer-Aided Design Computer Architecture Simulation R ECENT P UBLICATIONS "Transaction-based Waveform Analysis for IP Selection" , J.Liu, E. Shragowitz, Proceedings of the ASP-DAC , to appear, 2003. "Net Criticality Revisited: An Effective Method to Improve Timing in Physical Design" , H. Chang, E. Shragowitz, J. Liu, H. Youssef, B. Lu, S. Sutanthavibul, Proceedings of the International Symposium on Physical Design (ISPD) , Pages 155-160, 2002. "Combining Hierarchical Filtering, Fuzzy Logic, and Simulation with Software Agents for IP (Intellectual Property) Selection in Electronic Design " , J. Liu, E. Shragowitz, W-T. Tsai, International Journal on Artificial Intelligence Tools, vol.10, no. 3 , Pages 303-323, 2001. "Wire Segmenting for Buffer Insertion Based on RSTP-MSP " , B. Lu, J. Gu, X-D. Hu, E. Shragowitz, }Theoretical Computer Science A, 262 (1-2) , Pages 257-267, 2001. "Overshoot and Undershoot Control for Transmission Line Interconnects" , E. Shragowitz, J. Lee. Proceedings of IEEE Electronic Components and Technology Conference (ECTC99) , 99. "Synthesis of High-Speed Interconnects Under Constraints on Timing and Signal Integrity" , E. Shragowitz, J. Lee. Proceedings of IEEE Electronic Components and Technology Conference (ECTC98) , Pages 622-626, 98. "Application of Fuzzy Logic in Computer-Aided VLSI Design " , E. Shragowitz, J.-Y. Lee, and E. Kang, IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems}, vol.6, no. 1 , Pages 163-172, 98. M y current research interests are in CAD of electronic systems, soft computing and combinatorial optimization. In CAD we are developing methods, algorithms and software tools for automated design of chips, multichip modules, and printed circuit boards. Our algorithms and tools were used by industry for design of the most advanced electronic systems. Lately we concentrate on design-reuse issues, ranging from IP selection problem to equivalence verification problem emerging in design-reuse. We are actively working on timing and signal purity aspects of physical design on all levels. This work requires application of variety of mathematical techniques ranging from solving of systems of partial differential equations to advanced optimization techniques and soft computing. CAD systems belong to the category of the largest and the most complex software systems. Final products of our research very often have a form of very large computer programs. We also are working on application of fuzzy logic for solving of CAD problems. Fuzzy logic and other soft computing techniques allow to address the problems which are poorly handled by traditional mathematical methods. Our research also includes high level synthesis and other aspects of design automation. Because many design problems are combinatorial in nature we are actively researching algorithms for combinatorial optimization, specifically in the areas with the direct applications in CAD. A CADEMIC Q UALIFICATIONS Ph.D., 1971, National Scientific Research Laboratory. Moskow, Russia, Computer Science. M.S., 1958, College of Electrical Engineers, St. Petersburg, Russia, Electrical Engineering. P ROFESSIONAL E XPERIENCE Senior Staff Scientist, College of Engineering and Economics, St. Petersburg, Russia Professor, College of Engineering and Economics, St. Petersburg, Russia Professor, Univeristy of Minnesota I NDUSTRIAL/ C ONSULTING E XPERIENCE Design Engineer (Analog and Digital Electronics) Chief Engineer of one of the first computer centers Senior Network Engineer (NCR Comten) Techniclal Consultant (Advanced CAD Department, Control Data Corporation) R ECENT R ESEARCH S UPPORT NSF, Intel Mailing address: EUGENE B. SHRAGOWITZ Department of Computer Science and Engineering University of Minnesota 4-192 Electrical Engineering/Computer Science Building 200 Union Street S.E. Minneapolis, MN 55455 Industrial and Community Assistance Center Home Page Last updated : Thu Aug 28 15:47:36 CDT 1997 The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Proposal Reference 
