 Chinwendu Enyioha Welcome to Dr. Chinwendu Enyioha's research group website. Chinwendu Enyioha Welcome to Dr. Chinwendu Enyioha's research group website. Search for: Skip to content Home Research Publications Awards Teaching Invited Talks News Openings Home Chinwendu Enyioha, PhD Assistant Professor Electrical Engineering & Computer Science University of Central Florida Harris Engineering Center HEC-416 +1 (407) UCF 0122 Research Overview My research group conducts basic and applied research in the areas of distributed optimization and control of networked dynamic and cyber-physical systems. Given the growth in the number of connected devices, the need for higher channel capacity for information flow, and critical/integral nature of modern technical system, the overarching research objectives are to develop efficient tools and techniques for decision making in large-scale resource-constrained systems. Application areas include Cyber-physical systems (CPS) such as energy/power systems and multi-robot teams. Research Interests Communication-efficient optimization in distributed decision making Safety and security of CPS Learning-based control of dynamic processes on networks. Resource-aware control of Energy systems and emerging IoT networks. Group Openings My research group is always scouting for talented PhD and undergraduate students to join in our research projects. We are especially recruiting for Fall 2019. If you are interested in working with us, please send an email to Dr. Enyioha with your CV. Current students at UCF and visiting students and scholars are also welcome to join our group. See current openings for details. Bio Chinwendu Enyioha is an Assistant Professor in the EECS Department at the University of Central Florida (UCF). Prior to arriving UCF, he was a Postdoctoral Fellow in the EE Department at Harvard University and Tufts University. He completed the Ph.D.in Electrical and Systems Engineering at the University of Pennsylvania, supervised by George Pappas and Ali Jadbabaie, in the areas of networked dynamical systems, and cyber-physical systems. At Penn, Dr. Enyioha was affiliated with the GRASP (Robotics) Lab and the PRECISE Center. Before that, he completed the BS in Mathematics (Summa Cum Laude) at Gardner-Webb University (GWU). Dr. Enyioha is a Fellow of the Ford Foundation , was named a William Fontaine Scholar at the University of Pennsylvania and has received the Mathematical Association of America Patterson award , amongst others. His research lies in the areas of optimization and resource-aware control of large-scale systems, with applications to multi-robot systems and cyber-physical networks. Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Radiate by ThemeGrill . 
