 Paul Gazzillo - Paul Gazzillo Home News Research Publications Advising Teaching Service Links CV Paul Gazzillo Assistant Professor of Computer Science at University of Central Florida Join Us I am accepting PhD students for funded RAships in program analysis and security! Read about my research . Send me an email . Then apply to UCF. Contact APPLeSEEd Lab The Applied Programming Languages, Software Engineering, and Education (APPLeSEEd) Lab tackles problems in software, security, and systems and cultivates computational thinking. Homepage CyberSP Cluster The Cyber Security and Privacy (CyberSP) Cluster is a university-wide research cluster formed as part of the Faculty Cluster Initiative that focuses on security and privacy in cyberspace. Homepage Paul Gazzillo is an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at University of Central Florida . He received his PhD from NYU and previously worked as a Post-Doc at Yale and a Research Scholar at Stevens Institute. His research aims to make it easier to develop safe and secure software, and it spans programming languages, security, software engineering, and systems. Projects include analysis of configurable systems, side-channel attack detection, and concurrent smart contracts. His work has been published in venues such as PLDI, ESEC/FSE, and PODC and has been recognized with a SIGPLAN Research Highlight . Email Twitter LinkedIn GitHub Blog ACM dblp Scholar Calendar News Jan 2019 Jin Koay has joined as an undergraduate research assistant. Dec 2018 Our paper " Conditional Compilation is Dead, Long Live Conditional Compilation! " has been accepted to ICSE NIER! Sep 2018 I gave a talk on our SPLC Challenge Track paper " Localizing Configurations in Highly-Configurable Systems ". Aug 2018 Joined University of Central Florida as an assistant professor. May 2018 I was awarded a collaborative grant from the NSF on analyzing configurable systems. Apr 2018 I am excited to be joining UCF as an assistant professor this August! Mar 2018 We contributed "How to add concurrency to smart contracts" to the new Distributed Computing column of the Bulletin of the EATCS . See all news here . Contact: Email Twitter LinkedIn GitHub Blog ACM dblp Scholar Calendar 2019 Paul Gazzillo. Powered by Jekyll & Minimal Mistakes . 
