 Thomas Nedorost - Home CS DIVISION ECE DIVISION THOMAS NEDOROST nedorost@cs.ucf.edu (407) 823-0408 Department Fax: (407) 823-5835 HEC 317 Thomas Nedorost BIOGRAPHY Dr. Tom Nedorost joined the University of Central Florida in 2012 as a Lecturer of Computer Science and Information Technology. He was promoted to Associate Lecturer in 2018. Dr. Nedorost is the Course Coordinator for CGS1060C-Introduction to Computers, CGS2100C-Computer Fundamentals for Business, and CIS4940C-Topics in Cybersecurity, and Director of the IT Internship Program. He also serves as the Faculty Advisor for the Collegiate Cyber Defense Club (aka Hack@UCF) and Coach for the UCF Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition Team. Under his leadership, the UCF CCDC Team won back-to-back-to-back National Championships in the 2014, 2015 and 2016 National Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition . Hack@UCF was awarded the Collegiate Cybersecuirty Championship Cup (C4) for both 2014 and 2015 in recognition of the club's record of exceptional performances over a wide variety of cybersecurity competitions. Dr. Nedorost is a member of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), Colloquim for Information Systems Security Education (CISSE), InfraGard, ISACA, Information Systems Security Association (ISSA), Florida Cyber Alliance, National CyberWatch, CyberWatch West, and the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP). His interests include cybersecurity, information assurance, digital literacy, and societal impacts of new technologies. Dr. Nedorost earned his EdD in Higher & Postsecondary Education at Arizona State University in 2007. He holds a MS in Management Information Systems from the University of Central Florida and a MBA in Management from the UCLA Anderson School of Management. His undergraduate education includes a BS in Computer Science from Northern Illinois University, a BB in Personnel Administration & Industrial Relations from Western Illinois University, an AS in Computer Programming & Analysis from Valencia College, and an AA from Moraine Valley Community College. Prior to joining UCF, Dr. Nedorost taught Computer Information Technology courses at Valencia College in Orlando, FL. His past industry experience includes technical management positions with Andersen Consulting (now Accenture), the Hewlett-Packard Company, and the Walt Disney World Company. Dr. Nedorost is actively involved in his local community and is an elected City Council Member and former Mayor of Lake Buena Vista, FL. 
