 Murat Yuksel Associate Professor of ECE, CS, CREOL @UCF Murat Yuksel Associate Professor of ECE, CS, CREOL @UCF Research Group Funding Publications Teaching Service Biography CV Contact Meta-Networking Blog Latest News My research interests are in networked, wireless, and computer systems with a recent focus on optical wireless, spectrum sharing, device-to-device systems, cloud networking, network architectures and economics, network management and simulation. My older work, with occasional current activity, has included wireless routing, multicast, and peer-to-peer and overlays, and network science . I direct Networking and Wireless Systems Lab (NWSL) at UCF. My research group was part of the Computer Networking Lab (CNL) , for which I was the Founding Director. Our work spans both theoretical and experimental aspects of computer and networked systems research. I am a strong believer in inter-disciplinary research and much of our work has been collaborative with experts from fields other than networking like economics, math, management/policy sciences, and physics. Here is a list of some of our current projects: Modeling and Development of Resilient Communication for First Responders in Disaster Management (w/ UC Riverside, UIC, and Rutgers) US Ignite: Rapid and Resilient Critical Data Sourcing for Public Safety and Emergency Response (w/ VCU) Multi-Element Illuminication for Mobile Free-Space-Optical Networks (w/ FIU, NCSU) Pervasive Spectrum Sharing for Public Safety Communications (w/ NCSU and VTech) OMEGA: Online Management, Experimentation, and GAme of Large-Scale Networks Some of the earlier projects include the followings: FSO-MANETs: Free-Space-Optical Mobile Ad-hoc Networks (w/ RPI) Contract-Switching: Value Flows and Risk Management Architecture for Future Internet (w/ RPI) PIM Reconfiguration in Backbone Video Networks (w/ AT&T Labs) Value of Class-of-Service (CoS) Support in the Internet Backbone (w/ AT&T Labs) DTONs: Towards Disconnection Tolerant, Opportunistic Internet (w/ RPI) Number of visitors since December 2003 : .. Latest News Paper accepted to IEEE ICBC19. Paper accepted to IEEE Systems. Paper accepted to IEEE ICC19 Selected as a Distinguished TPC Member of IEEE INFOCOM19 My new website is up! 
