 Ronald F. DeMara, Personal Page HOME TEACHING OVERVIEW PEOPLE PUBLICATIONS ACTIVITIES Ronald F. DeMara ronald.demara@ucf.edu CAL Homepage (407) 823-5916 Office Fax: (407) 823-5835 HEC 310 Professor Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Central Florida Director of Computer Architecture Laboratory Curriculum Vitae Download CV Concise Bio Ronald F. DeMara received the Ph.D. degree in Computer Engineering from the University of Southern California in 1992. Since 1993, he has been a full-time faculty member at the University of Central Florida where he is a Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and joint faculty of Computer Science, and has served as Associate Chair, ECE Graduate Coordinator, and Computer Engineering Program Coordinator. His research interests are in adaptive computer architectures with emphasis on reconfigurable and post-CMOS devices, evolvable and intelligent hardware, resilient and energy-aware logic design, and the digitization of STEM education. On these topics, he has completed over 250 publications, 47 funded projects as PI or Co-PI including sponsorship of NSF, NASA, Army, Navy, Air Force, DARPA, and NSA, with one patent granted and one provisional patent. He has completed 44 graduates as Ph.D. dissertation or M.S. thesis advisor and was previously an Associate Engineer at IBM and a Research Scientist at NASA Ames, in total for four years. He is a Senior/Topical Editor of IEEE Transactions on Computers and has served on the Editorial Boards of IEEE Transactions on VLSI Systems, Microprocessors and Microsystems , and as Guest Editor of various Transactions , and serves on various IEEE conference program committees including ISVLSI, NVMSA, SSCI, etc. He received the IEEE Joseph M. Bidenbach Outstanding Engineering Educator Award in 2008. ORCID ID: http://orcid.org/0000-0001-6864-7255 Extended Bio Ronald F. DeMara (IEEE S86-M93-SM04) received the B.S.E.E. degree with High Honors from Lehigh University in 1987, M.S.E.E. degree from the University of Maryland, College Park in 1989, and Ph.D. degree in Computer Engineering from the University of Southern California in 1992. Since 1993, he has been a full-time faculty member at the University of Central Florida (UCF) and is a Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, joint faculty of Computer Science, and Digital Learning Faculty Fellow. His interests are in adaptive and resilient computing architectures including reconfigurable fabrics and post-CMOS devices. He has applied these to autonomous, embedded, and intelligent/neuromorphic systems, on which he has completed over 250 articles, 47 funded projects as PI or Co-PI totaling $12M with one patent granted and one provisional patent, and 48 graduates as Ph.D. dissertation and/or M.S. thesis advisor. He was previously an Associate Engineer at IBM and a Visiting Research Scientist at NASA Ames, in total for four years, and is a registered Professional Engineer since 1992. His research has extended neuromorphic computing architectures using intrinsic stochastic post-CMOS devices; autonomous FPGA systems design at the register-level; soft error and BTI/TDDB resilient datapath design in deeply-scaled clocked CMOS; as well as clockless logic design and library development at the circuit-level; and dynamic runtime reconfiguration for energy/resiliency of signal processing fabrics at the system-level; and he has completed projects on these topics for NSF, NASA, Army, Navy, Air Force, DARPA, NSA, SRC, and others. Additional recent work includes Field Programmable Analog Arrays, STT cache/LUT design, and neuromorphic functional elements / design flows using probabilistic spin logic devices. He teaches graduate and undergraduate courses on Computer Organization, Logic Design, Evolvable Hardware, and Emerging Device Computing Architectures. He is a Senior Member of IEEE and Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Emerging Topics in Computing during 2019-present. He also served as a Topical Editor of IEEE Transactions on Computers in 2017-2018, as an Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on VLSI Systems , and as an Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Computers for multiple terms. Additionally, he served on the editorial board of Microprocessors and Microsystems , and the Journal of Circuits, Systems, and Computers . He was Guest Editor of IEEE Transactions on Emerging Topics in Computing joint with Transactions on Computers 2017 Special Section on Innovation in Reconfigurable Fabrics. He was a Guest Editor of ACM Transactions on Embedded Computing Systems Special Issue on Configuring Algorithms, Processes, and Architectures. He also oversaw as Topical Editor the IEEE Transactions on Computers 2019 Special Section on Emerging Non-volatile Memory Technologies. He gave the Keynote Address at the IEEE RAW conference in 2017 and was Keynote Speaker of the IEEE Reconfigurable Computing and FPGAs (IEEE ReConFig) conference in 2006. Professor DeMara received best paper recognitions at the 27th IEEE/ACM Great Lakes Symposium on VLSI in 2018, the International Symposium on Quality Electronic Design in 2017, as well as a featured paper in IEEE Transactions on Emerging Topics in Computing in 2019, a a front cover article of IEEE Transactions on Magnetics in 2018, paper of the month at IEEE Transactions on Computers in 2017 and also in 2016, an IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems article highlighted for presentation at the IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems in 2017, a featured paper of IET Electronics Letters in 2016, the best paper award at the IEEE-sponsored Adaptive Hardware and Systems conference in 2015, the International Conference on Field Programmable Logic , and others. At UCF, he received the Distinguished Research Lecturer Award, Research Initiative Award (RIA) twice, the university-level Scholarship of Teaching & Learning (SoTL) award twice, the Faculty Advisor of the Year Award in the College of Engineering, the university-level Teaching Initiative Program (TIP) Award four times, the Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching Award , the Excellence in Graduate Teaching Award , and the Excellence in Professional Service Award . His contributions have also recognized with the Marchioli Collective Impact Award for transformative innovations by a faculty member at the university-level. He is the Digital Learning Faculty Fellow at UCF leading thrusts in mixed-mode delivery, active learning, and assessment interwoven with tutoring initiatives in STEM degree programs across multiple colleges. He has been recognized as an iSTEM Fellow for instructional technology pilots within Engineering. For his contributions to advancing digitized assessments, he received the Online Learning Consortium (formerly Sloan Consortium) Effective Practice Award in 2018. He also received the Joseph M. Biedenbach Outstanding Engineering Educator Award from IEEE in 2008. !--> 
