 About Dr. Jun Wang Computer Architecture and Storage System Laboratory Computer Architecture and Storage System Laboratory Search for: Home Founder About Dr. Jun Wang Teaching Publication Professional Service Research Grants CASS Members Alumni Photo Gallery Contact Home Founder About Dr. Jun Wang Teaching Publication Professional Service Research Grants CASS Members Alumni Photo Gallery Contact About Dr. Jun Wang Professor Jun Wang Dr. Jun Wang joined Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science in University of Central Florida in 2006. Prior to that, he was a faculty in Computer Science and Engineering DepartmentofUniversity of Nebraska, Lincoln.He is the recipient of National Science Foundation Early Career Award 2009 andDepartment of Energy Early Career Principal Investigator Award 2005. Recently, he has won 2015 UCF Reach For the Stars award, 2013 Deans Research Professorship Award, Charles N.MillicanFaculty Fellow 2010-2012, and University of Central Florida Research Incentive Award 2010 and 2017. His research has been sponsored mainly by National Science Foundation and Department of Energy.His work aims to generate impacts in the high-performance I/O systems community.He has authored over 80 publications in premier journals such as IEEE Transactions on Computers, IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, and leading HPC and systems conferences such as IPDPS, HPDC,EuroSys, ICS, Middleware, FAST. He has graduated 9Ph.D. students who upon their graduations were employed by major US IT corporations (e.g., Apple, Google, Microsoft, EMC, etc). He has served as an Associate Editor for the IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, and IEEE Transactions on Cloud Computing . He has conducted extensive research in the areas of Computer Systems and High Performance Computing. His specific research interests include: Big Data and Big Compute Systems Data-intensive High Performance Computing Massive Storage and File System I/O Architecture US News and World Report announced UCF Computer Engineering graduate program 2015-2016ranking at 58. There are multiple graduate research assistant positions available in CASS laboratory. Please contact Prof. Wang at Jun.Wang@UCF.edu. EECS Electrical & Computer Engineering Phone: 407-8230449 Email: JUN.WANG@UCF.EDU Location: Harris Engineering Center (bldg. 116) 320 News ! RA position available ! If you are interested in our research program, please contact us! 2019 Computer Architecture and Storage System Laboratory Theme by Anders Noren Up 
