 [pamspam] [pamspam] Pamela Wisniewski HOME ABOUT ME RESEARCH INTERESTS TEACHING GOALS PORTFOLIO PUBLICATIONS COURSES TAUGHT REFERENCES LATEST NEWS HOME Introductions Are in Order . . . *** Notice: This website is out-of-date. For an updated view of what I am currently doing, please go to my STIR Lab website. Thanks! *** Professionally My name is Pamela Wisniewski (pronounced WIZ-NES-KEY). I am currently an Assistant Professor at the University of Central Florida College of Engineering and Computer Science. Previously I was a Post Doctoral Researcher at Penn State University in the College of Information Sciences and Technology. I have a Ph.D. in Computing and Information Systems from the University of North Carolina at Charlotte . My dissertation research focused on interpersonal boundary regulation within online social networks, such as Facebook. My research interests include Human-Computer Interaction, Social Computing, Digital Youth, and Privacy. I have a Master of Science in Decision and Information Sciences from the University of Florida , and I have worked as a systems developer in the financial services and medical consulting fields, predominantly leveraging Microsoft technologies. Click here to download my Curriculum Vitae (Please email me for the most up-to-date version). Personally Call me Pam. I was born in Gainesville, Florida. Thats right, Im a native Gator. I am the youngest daughter with two sisters who are 7 and 18 years older than me. Growing up, I was a complete nerd who liked being at school more than I liked being at home. I am horrible at any kind of sports and, in fact, once told a co-worker that the only place I can catch or throw is in code. Yeah, I am that bad. I am a fiscal conservative and a social moderate who doesnt like to argue about politics. I am a non-denominational Christian and believe God has a grander plan for us all than the strife and conflict humans bring upon ourselves in the name of religion. I am married to my best friend, Mike. We met on Match.com. I love him so much I even took his insanely long last name (of which none of my students can pronounce). We got married on 8/8/08 and have since been learning the fine art of being married. In October 2014, we became parents to a beautiful little girl named Eva. Right now, our life is a crazy balancing act of me starting a new tenure-track position, raising Eva, and trying to get some sleep in-between. Some of our hobbies (when we had extra time) include camping, kayaking, hiking to waterfalls, home improvement, and traveling. So far we have gone on vacation to Italy, Greece, and Turkey (Eastern Mediterranean cruise for our honeymoon ), Alaska , Cozumel Mexico, Belize, Honduras, and Grand Caymen ( Caribbean cruise ). Mike traveled all over the world (but, of course, it doesnt count since I wasnt with him!) when he was an consultant/Solutions Architect for IBM and WindRiver Systems. However, a few years ago, he took time off from his successful career due to his health. We havent been able to travel much lately, but we hope to be able to again soon. Overall, we try to work hard, love one another, enjoy life, and do good. Comments are closed. Browse HOME RESEARCH INTERESTS TEACHING GOALS PUBLICATIONS COURSES TAUGHT REFERENCES Latest News Selected as a William T. Grant Early Career Scholar May 16, 2018 Most Teens Bounce Back December 6, 2017 Hey, Google and Facebook! July 27, 2017 Invitation to the Matt Townsend Show May 12, 2017 Two CSCW Papers Accepted November 21, 2016 Connect Copyright 2011 [pamspam] by Pamela Wisniewski | Design modified from Diamonds Designers | Powered by WordPress 
