 George Konidaris Director: Intelligent Robot Lab Assistant Professor Department of Computer Science Brown University, Providence RI gdk@cs.brown.edu Home | IRL | Research | Teaching | Publications | Software | CV Welcome to my home page. I'm an Assistant Professor of Computer Science and at Brown University and director of the Intelligent Robot Lab . Research My research aims to build intelligent, autonomous, general-purpose robots that are generally capable in a wide variety of tasks and environments. I focus on understanding how to design agents that learn abstraction hierarchies that enable fast, goal-oriented planning. I develop and apply techniques from machine learning, reinforcement learning, optimal control and planning to construct well-grounded hierarchies that result in fast planning for common cases, and are robust to uncertainty at every level of control. I believe that it will take advances in all of these areas, and additionally advances in how to integrate these areas, to solve the AI problem. This video of some of my recent work is a good indicator of my interests - it combines ideas from hierarchical reinforcement learning, probabilistic machine learning, task-level planning, and robotics to create a robot that autonomously learns an abstract symbolic model of an environment and then uses it to plan: Here are a few sample project pages: Constructing High-Level Symbolic Representations for Planning . Autonomous Robot Skill Acquisition . Planning for the Decentralized Control of Multi-Robot Teams . Robot Motion Planning on a Chip . The Fourier Basis . Teaching I am currently teaching: CSCI 1410: Artificial Intelligence (Fall 2018) I have previously taught the following classes at Brown: CSCI 2951X: Reintegrating AI (Spring 2018) CSCI 1410: Artificial Intelligence (Fall 2017) CSCI 1410: Artificial Intelligence (Spring 2017) I taught the following classes when I was at Duke: CPS 590.2: Hierarchical Robot Learning and Planning (Fall 2014) CPS 270: Introduction to Artificial Intelligence (Spring 2015) CPS 590: Decision Making for Robots and Autonomous Systems (Fall 2015) CPS 270: Introduction to Artificial Intelligence (Spring 2016) 
