 Curious Sense Work Agency Work Posts & Press Contact Facebook LinkedIn Twitter RSS Curious Sense is the online journal of Adam Blumenthal, Chief Digital Officer at Optimity Advisors and a Professor of the Practice and Virtual Reality Artist-in-Residence at Brown University. Curious? From Concept to Results Prev Next 1 2 3 4 From Concept to Results Designing Digital Experiences Recognition for the Work Thought Leadership Posts & Press 6 Jan A 3rd Term at the White House Adam Blumenthal Attends Discussions on VR for STEM Education On December 12, 2016, The Executive Office of the President of the United States, Office of Science and Technology Policy hosted a meeting regarding the use 14 Oct Adam Blumenthal Attends White House Symposium on the Future of Education R&D and Digital Learning On October 5, 2016, Curious Sense founder, Adam Blumenthal, was one of 200 guests from around the country to attend the White House Summit on Computer 17 Sep Adam Blumenthal Attends White House Summit on Computer Science for All On September 14, 2016, Curious Sense founder, Adam Blumenthal, was one of 200 guests from around the country to attend the White House Summit on Computer 8 Jun Brown University Names Adam Blumenthal Virtual Reality Artist-in-Residence Curious Sense founder charged with developing ground-breaking virtual reality experiences with students, faculty, and 3rd parties. 1 Jun Social Media Marketing Text Book Cites Adam Blumenthals Article on Branded Games Social Media Marketing was the first textbook to cover this vital subject. It shows how social media fits into and complements the marketers toolbox. The book 5 May New York Times Cites Our Music Video Game As a Marketing Innovation Stuart Elliott of The New York Times writes about Curious Sensess strategy to both market and generate revenue for artists in the struggling music industry 18 Apr Billboard Invites Blumenthal to Write About Digital Innovation for Music Industry After several successful innovative digital marketing projects with music artists, Billboard asked Adam Blumenthal to write an op-ed piece about his experience transitioning from the agency world to the music industry 15 Apr Who Art Thou, Chief Digital Officer? Its hard to find something if you dont know what youre looking for. Just ask professional recruiters tasked with finding the elusive chief digital officer (CDO). 1 Apr New Music Industry Textbook Quotes Adam Blumenthals Billboard Op-Ed Professor Tim J. Andersons new book,Popular Music in a Digital Music Economy Problems and Practices for an Emerging Service Industry, quotes my Billboard Op-Ed piece, and 12 Mar New York Times Features Curious Sense Work With The Design Network Curious Sense was instrumental in developing and pitching the story that led to this article by Stuart Elliott in The New York Times Older Entries Chief Digital Officer Hello! I'm Adam Blumenthal. Since 1993 I have been leading world-class interactive media productions with the world's best known brands. Equally adept and deep from Biz Dev to Strategy to Creative to Implementation, I have lead dozens of award-winning productions - as a leader at preeminent Madison Avenue agencies, producer of more than a dozen digital games and virtual worlds, and as Chief Digital Officer at Optimity Advisors. I'm a first-generation Digital Native, interactive since 1980. After more than 30 years I share here the perspective of a lifetime creative-technologist by passion and profession. Connect? Visionary Thinking. Brilliant Execution. 2008-2018 Curious Sense | Adam Blumenthal, Chief Digital Officer Google+ 
