kyle rector home research publications teaching outreach cv contact kyle rector university of iowa computer science the university of iowa 14 maclean hall iowa city, ia 52242-1419 kyle-rector@uiowa.edu about me i am an assistant professor of computer science and a member of the public digital arts cluster at the university of iowa. i conduct research at the intersection of human-computer interaction and accessibility. i am especially interested in developing technologies that enhance quality of life for people who are blind or low vision in domains including exercise and art. i graduated from the university of washington in 2016 from the department of computer science and engineering, and my advisors were dr. julie kientz and dr. richard ladner. i am most recently excited about being awarded a microsoft artificial intelligence for accessibility grant. i was a previous recipient of the nsf graduate research fellowship and the google phd fellowship in hci. for more in-depth information on my research feel free to look at my dissertation. news i am excited to announce that i and my collaborators were awarded a microsoft artificial intelligence for accessibility grant! we are excited to develop a mobile application that provides navigation feedback to people who are visually impaired on 400-meter jogging tracks! we got two papers accepted to chi 2019! we cannot wait to present in glasgow. i will be presenting a paper on exploring aural and haptic feedback for people who are visually impaired on jogging tracks at assets 2018! i will be attending the 2018 grace hopper conference! i will be visiting the google phd fellowship summit to participate in a panel on what's next after phd?" i and my collaborators presented a paper a ubicomp in hawaii! i am attending the microsoft research faculty summit! i will be paticipating in the day of service at chi 2017. we had a publication accepted to taccess about the eyes-free yoga deployment! i was featured on oregon state university's engineering out loud podcast with my mentor margaret burnett! i was part of an accepted chi 2017 publication! last updated 12/13/2018.
