 Search for: Skip to content About Mission and Vision Leadership Chief Scientists Staff Directory Location Employment Room Request Research Computing & Networking Global Environment for Network Innovations PANORAMA RADII SciDAC: Nuclear Physics QCD SciDAC SUPER Scientific Data Analysis at Scale (SciDAS) Smart Grids XPRESS Data Science DataBridge DataNet Federation Consortium iRODS ImPACT NCDS South Big Data Hub xDCI Earth Data Science Research Coastal Hazard and Risk Modeling EarthCube Galapagos Science Center HydroShare Health Informatics & Biosciences Informatics for Genetic Sequencing NC TraCS Secure Research Space: Security for a world of distributed data Clinical Decision Support System (CDSS) Publications RENCI White Papers Scholarly Papers RENCI Tutorials Technical Reports Resources News News Releases Calendar Blog Images News Appearances Leadership Stanley C. Ahalt, Director Ashok Krishnamurthy, Deputy Director Management Team Stanley C. Ahalt is director of the Renaissance Computing Institute (RENCI), professor of computer science at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and the head of the Biomedical Informatics Core for the North Carolina Translational and Clinical Sciences Institute (NC TraCS). He is principal investigator for the Water Science Software Institute project, which seeks to build a cyberinfrastructure for managing, sharing and using water science data. As director of RENCI, he was instrumental in launching two major data science initiatives: The National Consortium for Data Science (NCDS), a public-private partnership to address big data challenges and opportunities in research and business; and iRODS, an effort to develop a branch of the popular integrated Rule-Oriented Data System as enterprise-quality software, complete with rigorous testing and a robust, feature-rich code base. Dr. Ahalt serves as a member of the executive board of the iRODS Consortium, an international group focused on long-term sustainability of the iRODS data management platform. He is also a co-PI with the DataNet Federation Consortium, a National Science Foundation project to prototype an integrated platform for sharing, using and managing data across distances and scientific fields. Other leadership roles include past chair of the Coalition for Academic Scientific Computing, former co-chair of the Ohio Broadband Council, extramural member of the National Cancer Institutes Advanced Biomedical Computing Centers Oversight Committee, and member of the Council on Competitiveness High Performance Computing Advisory Committee. He has authored or co-authored more than 120 technical papers and been principal investigator or co-principal investigator on research grants totaling more than $17 million. His recent research publications have focused on decoupling data through encryption. Before coming to RENCI in 2009, Dr. Ahalt was executive director of the Ohio Supercomputer Center (OSC) from 2003 2009 and a professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at The Ohio State University for 22 years. Ahalt launched several model programs at OSC, including Blue Collar Computing, a national program to bring high performance computing to a wide spectrum of industries and applications, and OSCnet, a leading high-speed research network for K-12 schools, higher education and economic development. He holds a Ph.D. in electrical and computer engineering from Clemson University and masters and bachelors degrees in electrical engineering from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. Education, Appointments and Honors Invited Presentations Professional Appointments and Services Publications Population Informatics Research Group / The Social Genome Project Contact Information: ahalt at renci.org 919-445-9641 Ashok Krishnamurthy is the Deputy Director of the Renaissance Computing Institute (RENCI), and a Research Professor of Computer Science at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. He is also the Director for the Biomedical Informatics Service at NC TraCS. Krishnamurthy has many years of experience with informatics and data science including data science cyber-infrastructure, medical image analysis, time series data analysis, machine learning and high performance computing. He has over 15 years experience as both a researcher and an administrator in advancing cutting-edge research in interdisciplinary teams. Krishnamurthy collaborates with researchers in informatics, biomedical and health research, and social sciences to develop projects and programs that leverage the power of data science and scalable computing to solve challenging problems that advance the state-of-the-art. He advises undergraduate, and graduate students, and mentors post-doctoral scholars and junior investigators. He is also involved in managing and enhancing research partnerships with faculty at UNC Chapel Hill, Duke University and North Carolina State University, and building relationships between RENCI and Triangle area businesses. Ashoks research over the years has been funded by NSF, NIH, DoD, DARPA and DOE. Prior to joining RENCI and UNC in 2013, Krishnamurthy was for many years at the Ohio Supercomputer Center and a faculty member at The Ohio State University. While at OSC, Krishnamurthy played a crucial role in establishing OSCs successful industrial outreach initiative called Blue Collar Computing. He also helped develop and deploy cyberinfrastructure that allows researchers to easily access and use computing and storage resources at OSC. Krishnamurthy holds PhD and masters degrees in electrical and computer engineering from the University of Florida and a bachelors degree in electrical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology. Jay Aikat is theChief Operating Officer in charge of managing day-to-day operations at RENCI in UNC-Chapel Hill (UNC-CH). Aikat is also a Research Assistant Professor in UNC-CHs department of computer science, where she hasmentored several undergraduate,masters and PhD students, andtaught undergraduate computer science classes. Herresearch interests arein computernetworking,cloud security, and data science.Sheplayed a crucial role inlaunching the Data@Carolina initiative at UNC-CH.Previously, she worked for eight years in leadership roles in Information Technology, mostly in academia. Aikat earned her PhD and MS in computer science from UNC-Chapel Hill. She also holds an MS in electrical and computer engineering from Ohio University and a BS in electrical and electronics engineering from the Birla Institute of Technology. Kristi Andrews is RENCIs finance manager. She is responsible for the institutes day-to-day fiscal management and research administration. This includes accounting, purchasing, travel, effort management and sponsored research administration. Kristi and her team are responsible for managing all institutional and sponsored research funding.RENCI sponsored research funding comes from a variety of sources, including the National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the Department of Energyand the Department of Homeland Security. Her team also provides assistance with submission of research proposals, ensuring that the institute remains in compliance with university, state and federal guidelines. In addition to RENCI, Kristis team also manages finance and research administration for the UNC Center for Natural Hazards Resilience and the Center for Galapagos Studies. Ilya Baldin leads RENCIs network research and infrastructure programs. He is a networking researcher with a wide range of interests, including high-speed optical network architectures, cross-layer interactions, novel signaling schemes, and network security. Before coming to RENCI, Baldin was the principal scientist at the Center for Advanced Network Research at the Research Triangle Institute and a network research engineer at the Advanced Network Research group at MCNC, where he was a team member and a leader of a number of federally funded research efforts. He holds PhD and MS degrees in computer science from North Carolina State University. Brian Blanton is RENCIs director of environmental initiatives and a coastal oceanographer with 15+ years of experience in coastal hazards and risk assessment, high performance computing, and earth sciences data analysis. He co-leads the Environmental Sciences group with Ray Idaszak, building connections between water-themed sciences and applications through sustainable software development and data management practices. His research usually involves applications of the storm-surge and wind-wave model ADCIRC, for problems such as how the Federal Emergency Management Agency computes coastal floodplain statistics, rapid statistical forecasting of storm surge, and risk-based coastal evacuation routing. He is also leading RENCIs efforts in bridging the gap between academic research and industrial applications through NSFs Industry/University Cooperative Research Centers program. He earned a PhD (2003) in Marine Sciences from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and a BS (1991) in mathematics from Armstrong State College in Savannah, Georgia. Chris Bizon is the acting director of Analytics and Data Science. He leads a team that applies a range of analytical methods including machine learning, visual analytics, semantic web-based reasoning, and textual annotation across many domains. He joined RENCI in 2008 as a member of the informatics group, where he worked in the areas of high-throughput sequencing, genomic analysis, and clinical genomics. Prior to joining RENCI, he spent a decade in the private sector working as both a developer and a researcher in the areas of fluid dynamics simulations and the application of machine learning to drug discovery. He holds a BS in Physics from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a PhD in Physics from the University of Texas at Austin, where he developed numerical models of nonlinear phenomena including pattern formation in oscillated granular media. Claris Castillo is RENCIs Assistant Director of DevOps and Cloud Strategist. She is a cyberinfrastructure and middleware expert who leads a team of scientists and software engineers in developing advanced middleware and cyberinfrastructure technologies that help accelerate data science. Before joining RENCI, Claris was a Research Staff Member at IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, where she developed novel middleware, resource management, and cloud technologies. She holds a PhD in Computer Science and a MS in Electrical Engineering from North Carolina State University. Jason Coposky is the executive director of iRODS Consortium. He leads the iRODS Consortium and the iRODS development team at RENCI. With over 20 years of industry experience, Jason has worked in a variety of technical fields, including virtual reality, EDA, visualization, and data management. Prior to RENCI, Jason was technical director for a startup where he developed projection and distortion correction technologies. Jason began his tenure at RENCI as the first member of the visualization team, creating novel large format display and multi-touch systems. He then moved to the iRODS@RENCI project as technical lead and later became chief technologist of the iRODS Consortium. In his current role, he provides management oversight for the entire Consortium. Rob Fowler di rects RENCIs high performance computing research projects, including efforts to analyze the effectiveness of high-end systems in serving the needs of scientists and to develop software tools that enhance the performance of grid-enabled applications. Fowler was previously a senior research scientist in the department of computer science and associate director of theCenter for High Performance Software Research at Rice University. He has served on the computer science faculty, in both regular and visiting positions, at several universities, including Rice, the University of Copenhagen, the University of Rochester and the University of Washington. He holds a PhD and masters in computer science from the University of Washington and a physics degree from Harvard College. Bonnie Hurst is RENCIs senior research project manager. Sheleads RENCIs project management team, which provides administrative and technical support to RENCIs major projects and initiatives. She is also the lead project manager for the iRODS Consortium, where her duties include, but are not limited to, handling member contracts and member/customer relations, facilitating all meetings iRODS meetings, coordinating events, managing customer relationships and CRM software, and managing day-to-day tasks for the Consortium. She previously provided similar services to RENCIs ExoGENI project team and participates in other RENCI initiatives as needed. Before coming to RENCI Bonnie was project manager for the Microelectronics Center of North Carolina (MCNC), where she managed major software development and research projects for the Center for Networked Information Discovery and Retrieval (CNIDR) and the Advanced Technologies Groupsboth research groups within (MCNC). Ray Idaszak is RENCIs director of DevOps. He leads a team of developers and engineers in using advanced engineering, open source, and analysis techniques in the development of cyberinfrastructure platforms. Prior to joining RENCI, Idaszak spent 12 years as chief technology officer and member of the board of directors of a collaborative environment company, where the products his team brought to market earned several industry awards. His work has appeared in magazines including National Geographic, Time, Scientific American, Discover, the cover of IEEE Computer, and on the PBS shows NOVA and The Infinite Voyage. Idaszak is listed on 12 patents and holds a computer science engineering degree from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. Asia Mieczkowska is RENCIs Strategic Projects Coordinator and manager of the Administrative Support Group for the Office of the Director. In her position, Asia serves as an outreach liaison for RENCI groups and helps to coordinate activities across RENCI, UNC-CH, Duke, and NC State. She facilitates communications among researchers and supports progress toward milestones for large multi-institutional and/or multi-disciplinary projects. Asia and her team are responsible for creating comprehensive systems that streamline data collection, reporting, and administrative maintenance for the Office of the Director and RENCI staff. Her previous professional life includes K-12 teaching and managing one of UNC-CHs genetics laboratories focused on the research of transcription regulation of human and model organisms. She has supported the research in ENCODE and modENCODE projects funded by the National Institutes of Health. Asia holds a MA in literature from Warsaw University, Poland, and a post-graduate diploma in Human Resources Management from the School of Business and International Finances & International School of Managers in Warsaw, Poland. Marcin Sliwowski is the cyberinfrastructure manager in charge of managing day-to-day IT operations. Before coming to RENCI, he was a Linux administrator at the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke University and the NAS storage team lead in the Engineering Department at Cisco Systems. At Cisco, he led a team that was responsible for supporting a global storage infrastructure. He holds an MS in computer science from The College of William and Mary and a BS in computer science from Bucknell University. Home > Mission and Vision > Leadership Pages #15933 (no title) ATPER Biography Creation Form Clinical Decision Support System (CDSS) Cyber-Physical Systems for Smart Grids First Workshop on Data-Centric Infrastructure for Big Data Science (DIBS) Forum Front Page (Beta) GF Update Test ImPACT Kelsey Urgo Mission and Vision Leadership Chief Scientists Staff Directory Location Employment News Appearances (Beta) RADII RENCI Blog RENCI Super Computing 2014 Booth Schedule Research ADAMANT Computing & Networking Data Science DataBridge DH Press Duke Projects Earth Data Science Research EarthCube Engagement & Outreach Engagement Centers Evidence-Based Medicine Galapagos Science Center GIMI Health Informatics & Biosciences HydroShare iRODS Knowledge-based Radiation Treatment Planning NC State Projects NC TraCS NCDS PANORAMA QDACT REACH NC SciDAC SUPER SciDAC: Nuclear Physics QCD Scientific Data Analysis at Scale (SciDAS) Water Science Software Institute XPRESS ACL Injuries Bioportal Carolina Launch Pad Geoanalytics Platform NC Coastal Wind Demonstration Project R3SAR Secure Research Space: Security for a world of distributed data Blue Waters Bot 2.0 Orthophotography Sensor Data Bus The Big Board VSCSE Summer Courses Weather and Emergency Management Decision Support Cochlear Implants Informatics for Genetic Sequencing Innovation and Technology Award NARA TPAP 4K Video Production CCEGA DataNet Federation Consortium Global Environment for Network Innovations Lightning Detection Metadata Management The Docuverse CI Evaluation Center Flexible Occlusion Rendering Lattice Gauge Theory Meteorological Modeling TUCASI Claim Jumping High-growth Companies Mobile Micro Rain Radar MotifNetwork RENCI People Cochlear Implant Studies Hospital Monitor iBiblio 2D MAESTRO Brown Bag Lecture Series DataLab iBiblio 3D Improving Health and Economies NC-FIRST Open Science Grid Distinguished Lecture Series Immersive Media NCEMA Collaborative Workspace SciDAC PERI USC Shoah Foundation Institute VHA Coastal Hazard and Risk Modeling Environmental Sensor Networks Injury Prevention Melanoma Image Analysis EPIC Immersive Media Manhattan Wind Visualization Public Health 2.0 Gigapixel Imagery Melanoma 3D High-growth Companies NC Floodplain Mapping LACSI Open Cobalt LEAD Open Science Grid Jobflow MSI Network Open Science Grid WRF NARA Polymer Modeling NC-FIRST for Teachers ProteinViz NC Collaboratory for Bioinformatics Quantum Chromodynamics NCSA Melanoma Project RTP Startups OHMS Soil Science Pablo Storm Surge Supernovas The DESTINY Traveling Science Learning Program Precision Agriculture UNC Worldwide Grants Renaissance Bistro UNC Network Vis RENCI @ SC Voluminous RENCI Weather Web WRF with Google Earth RTP Start-up Studies Visualize Particulate Matter SCOOP Sequence Assembly Spectacular Justice Summer Institute Soundings Radio Show Archive TeraGrid Science Gateway VGrADS Research by Tag Room Reservation Request SC14 Demo Form SC15 RENCI Booth Schedule SC16 RENCI Booth Schedule SC17 Booth Schedule SC18 Booth Schedule South Big Data Hub xDCI Resources Publications RENCI White Papers Scholarly Papers RENCI Tutorials Technical Reports News Calendar Images News Appearances Contact RENCI 919-445-9640 919-445-9669 media at renci.org 100 Europa Drive Suite 540 Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27517 About RENCI RENCI (Renaissance Computing Institute) develops and deploys advanced technologies to enable research discoveries and practical innovations. RENCI partners with researchers, government, and industry to engage and solve the problems that affect North Carolina, our nation, and the world. An institute of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, RENCI was launched in 2004 as a collaboration involving UNC Chapel Hill, Duke University, and North Carolina State University. Partners Connect Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Youtube Flickr RSS 2019 RENCI 
