Rikky Muller: Contact Information 564 Cory Hall rikky@berkeley.edu : Research Areas Integrated Circuits (INC) Biosystems & Computational Biology (BIO) Micro/Nano Electro Mechanical Systems (MEMS) . Research Centers Berkeley Wireless Research Center (BWRC) Center for Neural Engineering & Prostheses (CNEP) . Teaching Schedule Spring 2019 EE 290P. Electronic Implantable Medical Devices , MoWe 4:00PM - 5:29PM, Cory 293 . Biography Rikky Muller, PhD is an Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS) at the University of California, Berkeley. She is Co-director of the Berkeley Wireless Research Center (BWRC), a Core Member of the Center for Neural Engineering and Prostheses (CNEP) and an Investigator at the Chan-Zuckerberg Biohub. Her research group focuses on emerging implantable medical devices and in developing low-power, wireless microelectronic and integrated systems for neurological applications. Prof. Muller is also the Co-founder of Cortera Neurotechnologies, Inc. a medical device company founded in 2013 that is commercializing a neural implant device and has released a family of products for the animal neuroscience research market. At Cortera, she held positions as CEO and CTO. Prof. Muller received her Bachelors and Masters degrees in Electrical Engineering from MIT, where she worked on cellular BioMEMS devices for pathogen detection. She received her Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley in Electrical Engineering where she performed research on minimally invasive neural interfaces. After her graduate studies, she was a McKenzie Fellow and Lecturer of Electrical Engineering at the University of Melbourne in Australia where she continued research in medical bionics together with the school of Medicine. Prior to her Ph.D. she worked as an integrated circuit designer at Analog Devices. Prof. Muller has been recognized with numerous academic and industry fellowships and awards. She was named one of MIT Technology Review's top 35 global innovators under the age of 35 (TR35) in 2015, and one of MedTech Boston's top 40 healthcare innovators Under 40 in 2016. In 2017, she received the National Academy of Engineering Gilbreth Lectureship, the Chan-Zuckerberg Biohub Investigatorship, and the Keysight Early Career Professorship. . Education 2013, Ph.D., EECS, UC Berkeley 2004, S.B., EECS, MIT 2004, M.Eng., EECS, MIT . . Awards, Memberships and Fellowships NSF Faculty Early Career Development Award (CAREER) , 2019 IEEE Solid-State Circuits Society Distinguished Lecturer , 2019 NAE Gilbreth Lectureship , 2017 Keysight Early Career Professor Award , 2017 MedTech Boston's 40 Under 40 Healthcare Innovators , 2016 MIT Tech Review Top 35 Innovators Under 35 (TR35) , 2015 . 
