 Douglas H. Fisher ( Partner in crime ; My Hawk ; Chancellor's Cup ; Good Deed ) Associate Professor of Computer Science Associate Professor of Computer Engineering Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Vanderbilt University Nashville, TN 37235 Member of The Vanderbilt Climate Change Research Network 1-615-343-4111 Topics of popular interest Online Education Vanderbilt Institute for Digital Learning announcement ; Workshop on Multidiciplinary Research for Online Education ; Warming Up to MOOCs ; (Chronicle of Higher Education blog post); Wrapping on-campus courses around MOOCs (at about 26min into video; panel at ITHAKA S+R October 2012); Regional Sections of Massively Open Online Courses (Presentation to Coalition of Urban and Metropolitan Universities); More Bang for Your Buck (letter to the Vanderbilt student paper); My University Web pages list and give details on my recent on-campus courses with online components (https://my.vanderbilt.edu/douglasfisher/). Sustainability Recent Advances in AI for Computational Sustainability , overview of the papers of the AAAI-11 Special Track on Computational Sustainability, for the IEEE Intelligent Systems Department on AI and Sustainability. AI for Computational Sustainability Wikibook and Fisher, D., Dilkina, B., Eaton, E., Gomes, C. (2012). Incorporating Computational Sustainability into AI Education through a Freely-Available, Collectively-Composed Supplementary Lab Text Educational Advances in Artificial Intelligence. The Role of AI in Wisdom of the Crowds for the Social Construction of Knowledge on Sustainability , Maher and Fisher, AAAI Spring Symposium. Computing and AI for a Sustainable Future , inaugural article of the IEEE Intelligent Systems Department on AI and Sustainability. AAAI Spring Symposium on Artificial Intelligence and Sustainable Design . Essay on Leadership in Sustainability , Leadership in Science and Technology: A Reference Handbook. SAGE Publications, Nov. 2011. Federal Service Life as a NSF Program Director Doug's Blogs: Learning on Campus and in the Cloud is my online education blog (http://cloudandcampus.blogspot.com) Computer Science Education blog , is my blog on all things computing, but education focused (http://aicourses.blogspot.com). There are a couple of other blogs at the Blogger site as well. Publications, including papers online Graduate Students Presentations, Panels, etc. Living on campus Professional Service Education: University of California, Irvine (BS 1980; MS 1983; PhD 1987). Dissertation: Knowledge Acquisition via Incremental Conceptual Clustering. Advisor: Dennis Kibler Douglas H. Fisher 
