 Toggle navigation Search This Site Search All VU Logins VUGmail VMail YES Brightspace C2HR Anchor Link Resources PeopleFinder Libraries News Calendar Maps A-Z Get Social Explore VU About Admissions Academics Research Students Faculty & Staff Athletics Medical Center Research at Vanderbilt Office of the Vice Provost for Research Vanderbilt University Research Council A-Z Interdisciplinary Research Centers and Institutes Graduate Interdisciplinary Research Undergraduate Research Colleges and Schools Blair School of Music College of Arts and Science Divinity School Law School Owen Graduate School of Management Peabody College of Education and Human Development School of Engineering School of Medicine School of Nursing Resources for Researchers Compliance and Research Integrity Core Facilities for Research Digital Humanities Funding Programs Interns and Observers Jean and Alexander Heard Library Leveraged Proposal Organization and Development Limited Submission Opportunities Post-Award: Funded Proposals Pre-Award: Proposal Development and Submission Research IT Search External Funding Opportunities Technology Transfer and Commercialization Vanderbilt Institute for Digital Learning Vanderbilt University Press Initiatives Academic Strategic Plan Provosts Initiative to Enhance Research and Scholarship (PIERS) Oak Ridge National Laboratory Strategic Partnerships Research News Education and Psychology Engineering and Technology Health and Medicine Humanities Law, Business, and Politics Life, Earth, and Space Society and Culture Select Page Research at Vanderbilt Office of the Vice Provost for Research Vanderbilt University Research Council A-Z Interdisciplinary Research Centers and Institutes Graduate Interdisciplinary Research Undergraduate Research Colleges and Schools Blair School of Music College of Arts and Science Divinity School Law School Owen Graduate School of Management Peabody College of Education and Human Development School of Engineering School of Medicine School of Nursing Resources for Researchers Compliance and Research Integrity Core Facilities for Research Digital Humanities Funding Programs Interns and Observers Jean and Alexander Heard Library Leveraged Proposal Organization and Development Limited Submission Opportunities Post-Award: Funded Proposals Pre-Award: Proposal Development and Submission Research IT Search External Funding Opportunities Technology Transfer and Commercialization Vanderbilt Institute for Digital Learning Vanderbilt University Press Initiatives Academic Strategic Plan Provosts Initiative to Enhance Research and Scholarship (PIERS) Oak Ridge National Laboratory Strategic Partnerships Research News Education and Psychology Engineering and Technology Health and Medicine Humanities Law, Business, and Politics Life, Earth, and Space Society and Culture Office of the Vice Provost for Research, Padma Raghavan Padma Raghavan, Ph.D., M.S., was appointed Vice Provost forResearch at Vanderbilt University in February 2016. As Vice Provost for Research at Vanderbilt, she oversees the universitys research portfolio, commercialization and technology transfer, trans-institutional centers and institutes and implementation of the universitys new future vision through the Academic Strategic Plan . Raghavan works closely with Vanderbilt leadership and faculty to advance research and scholarship university-wide. Vanderbilt faculty are recognized for pioneering research, scholarship, and leadership in higher education. My goal is to promote Vanderbilts distinctive research culture, which aspires to improve the human condition through path-breaking discovery and innovation. My office develops strategies and provides services to enhance extramural support for research and advanced studies from all sources corporate, foundation, federal, and philanthropic, advance a cohesive and vibrant trans-institutional research agenda, and build strategic partnerships around shared priorities in research. I also engage with the Vanderbilt University Research Council to advocate for the research and scholarship missions of all disciplines at Vanderbilt. For inquiries, please contact the Office of the Vice Provost for Research at ovpr@vanderbilt.edu . For Vanderbilt research news, please see Research News @ Vanderbilt or sign up for the Research News @ Vanderbilt email newsletter . In addition to her appointment as Vice Provost for Research at Vanderbilt, Raghavan is also a Professor of Computer Science and Computer Engineering in the Vanderbilt School of Engineering. She specializes in supercomputing and its applications with a particular focus on energy-efficiency and scalable algorithms that operate on very large but sparse data sets including graphs and matrices. Raghavan is an active researcher, mentor, and leader in the profession. She has supervised over 40 M.S. and Ph.D. theses, authored over 100 peer-reviewed publications, and currently serves on the Advisory Board of the Computing and Information Science and Engineering Directorate of the National Science Foundation and the National Academys Panel for the Review of Information Technologies at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Raghavan has also received several awards for her work, including being elevated to a Fellow of the IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers) in 2013 for her contributions to robust scalable sparse solvers and energy-efficient parallel scientific computing. Prior to joining Vanderbilt, Raghavan served as the Associate Vice President for Research and Strategic Initiatives, the founding Director of the university-wide Institute for CyberScience, and Distinguished Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at the Pennsylvania State University. Assisted by Anne-Marie Gebel anne-marie.gebel@vanderbilt.edu . Office of the Vice Provost for Research Staff OVPR OrganizationalChart Douglas C. Schmidt Associate Provost for Research Development and Technologies Douglas C. Schmidt, Ph.D., M.S., M.A., M.A., is the Cornelius Vanderbilt Professor of Engineering and Associate Provost for Research Development and Technologies.In his role as Associate Provost, Schmidt develops cohesive and sustainable information technology (IT) services to advance research and scholarship across Vanderbilts ten schools and colleges, including scalable and secure storage, processing, and communication solutions; big data research cores and core-related services, and NIST 800-171 compliant IT services. Schmidt came to Vanderbilt in 2003 and became Associate Provost in the Office of the Vice Provost for Research in July 2018.Prior to joining Vanderbilt, Schmidt served as Program Manager at the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) and co-chaired the Software Design and Productivity Coordinating Group of the U.S. governments multi-agency Networking and Information Technology Research and Development Program.Schmidt also served as Chief Technology Officer and Deputy Director for the Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon University, as well as a professor at Washington University St. Louis and the University of California Irvine. Schmidt continues to be an active researcher and educator in Vanderbilts Computer Science program, focusing on software-related topics, such as patterns, optimization techniques, and empirical analyses of frameworks and model-driven engineering tools that facilitate the development of mission-critical middleware and mobile cloud computing applications.He has graduated over 40 Ph.D. and M.S. students, as well as published over 10 books and more than 600 technical papers that have been cited over 39,000 times. Schmidt can be reached by phone at 615-322-3942 and by email at d.schmidt@vanderbilt.edu . Janiece Harrison Assistant Provost of Research Operations and Director of Sponsored Programs Administration Janiece Harrison is Director of Sponsored Programs Administration, the unit responsible for pre-award services for grants and contracts at Vanderbilt University, and she serves as Assistant Provost of Research Operations, coordinating various research support services that have natural linkages and should be leveraged. She oversees Global Support Services, the Research Integrity Program, works closely with the Office of Contract and Grant Accounting on post-award and reporting functions, and gathers input from our researchers and staff to represent research administrations IT needs in the SkyVU project. Janiececan be reached by phone at 615-322-1722 and by email at janiece.harrison@vanderbilt.edu . Jane Hirtle Special Projects Manager Jane Hirtle assists the Vice Provost for Research with special projects, including strategic planning, office and organizational development, and strategic communications with Vanderbilt faculty. Prior to joining the Office of the Vice Provost for Research in March 2018, Jane managed the Evaluation & Assessment team in the Office of Undergraduate Medical Education at Vanderbilt University School of Medicine. Jane is a triple Vanderbilt graduate with a Bachelors in English and Psychology, a Masters in Psychology, and a PhD in Psychology. Her graduate research centered on cognitive and motor development in infancy, particularly the development of tool use in late infancy. She has been involved with a number of Vanderbilt organizations including the Writing Studio and Center for Teaching, and has been supporting faculty, teaching and coaching students of all levels, and managing large-scale research and administrative projects at Vanderbilt for the past 10 years. Jane can be reached by phone at 615-343-1343 and by email at jane.a.hirtle@vanderbilt.edu . Office of the Vice Provost for Research (615) 343-1339 121 Kirkland Hall Nashville, TN 37240 ovpr@vanderbilt.edu 2019 Vanderbilt University Site Development: University Web Communications Vanderbilt University is committed to principles of equal opportunity and affirmative action. Vanderbilt, Vanderbilt University, V Oak Leaf Design, Star V Design and Anchor Down are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. 2016 Vanderbilt University. All rights reserved. 
