 Toggle navigation Search This Site Search All VU Explore VU Vanderbilt Home About Admissions Academics Research Students Faculty & Staff Athletics News & Events Get Social @Vanderbilt Skip to main content About Me Contact Me Current Courses Curriculum Vitae News Publications Research Interests Upcoming Events Dr. Uttam Ghosh Assistant Professor of the Practice Department of EECS Dr. Uttam Ghosh joined Vanderbilt University as an Assistant Professor of the Practice of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science in January 2018. Dr. Ghosh obtained his PhD in Electronics and Electrical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, India in 2013, and has Post-doctoral experience at the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign, Fordham University, and Tennessee State University. His main research interests include Cybersecurity, Computer Networks, Wireless Networks, Information Centric Networking and Software-Defined Networking. He is actively working with VECTOR Vanderbilt University TennSMART consortium is designed to accelerate Intelligent Mobility in Tennessee. Dr. Ghosh is selected for Junior Faculty Teaching Fellow for 2018-19 in Vanderbilt University. He is also serving as Associate Editor and Reviewers of reputed journals and conferences. He is a member of the AAAS, ASEE, IEEE and ACM. Recent Posts Workshop on Blockchain for Software Defined Cyber-Physical Systems (in conjunction with IEEE 5th International Conference of Smartcomp, 2019) 12th IEEE International Conference on Cyber, Physical and Social Computing Special Session on Human Interactions for Softwarized Cyber-Physical Systems (CPSCOMHISCPS) Recent Comments Archives January 2019 Categories News Meta Register Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Your Vanderbilt Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff International Students Media Parents & Family Prospective Students Researchers Sports Fans Visitors & Neighbors Quick Links PeopleFinder Libraries News Calendar Maps A-Z 2019 Vanderbilt University All rights reserved. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Division of Communications) Vanderbilt University is committed to principles of equal opportunity and affirmative action. Accessibility information . Vanderbilt, Vanderbilt University, V Oak Leaf Design, Star V Design and Anchor Down are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University 
