 Skip to Main Content UTC.edu Students Faculty&Staff Alumni Parents Search: Search Class Schedule My MocsNet UTC Learn UTC Home Apply College of Engineering and Computer Science Menu About Dean's Welcome History Mission, Vision, and Goals College Administration and Staff Advisory Board ABET Accreditation Enrollment & Graduation Data Annual Review Academics Academic Faculty and Staff Chemical Engineering (BSChE) Civil Engineering (BSCE) Computer Science and Engineering (BS) Electrical Engineering (BSEE) Engineering Management & Technology (BS) Mechanical Engineering (BSME) General Engineering (BSE) Graduate Programs Admissions High School Transfer Graduate International Tours Living Learning Community Research Research Centers Laboratories Design Projects Applied Research Primary Research Thrusts Calls for Papers and Proposals Student Success Success Center Home 4-Yr. Plans Academic Advising Override Form Student Organizations Scholarships Resources Job Postings Career Development Peer-to-Peer Tutoring Outreach Speaker Series Career Fair School Visits Tours ACT Workshop Alumni Stay Connected Annual Review Partnerships Give to UTC Become a Corporate Partner Section Menu UTC / College of Engineering & Computer Science / People / Electrical Engineering / Faculty / Thomas (Daniel)Loveless People Master Directory College Administration and Staff Civil and Chemical Engineering Computer Science and Engineering Computer Science and Engineering Electrical Engineering Engineering Management & Technology Mechanical Engineering Adjunct FacultyInformation Dr. Thomas (Daniel) Loveless UC Foundation Assistant Professor Electrical Engineering Ph.D., 2009, Vanderbilt University Daniel-Loveless@utc.edu Dr. Loveless' Webpage (423) 425-2353 337 EMCS Dr. T. Daniel Loveless is a UC Foundation Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering at the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga (UTC). He received the B.S. degree in electrical engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 2004 and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from Vanderbilt University in 2007 and 2009, respectively. Prior to joining UTC, he was a Research Assistant Professor at the Vanderbilt University Institute for Space and Defense Electronics where he was involved in the modeling and design of integrated circuits for the evaluation of radiation effects in advanced CMOS technologies. Dr. Loveless has authored over 80 journal articles and conference papers. His honors include three best conference paper awards, the IEEE Nuclear and Plasma Sciences Society (NPSS) Graduate Scholarship Award for recognition of contributions to the fields of nuclear and plasma sciences, and the Georgia Tech Alumni Association Scholarship. He is a Senior Member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers(IEEE). His research interests include: embedded systems based on field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), microprocessors and microcontrollers, systems-on-chip, CubeSat design, radiation effects and reliability in electronic andphotonic integrated circuits, high-performance and radiation-hardened digital, mixed-signal and analog integrated circuit design, sensors, and development of smart cities. Curriculum Vitae Visit this faculty member's vita . Faculty Website Visit this faculty member's website . College of Engineering & Computer Science 450 EMCS Building | Dept 2452 | 615 McCallie Ave | Chattanooga, TN 37403 | (423) 425-2256 p | (423) 425-5311 f | About UTC Questions? 2012-2019University of Tennessee at Chattanooga. All rights reserved. EEO Statement | Privacy Statement | Accessibility | Web Requests A comprehensive, community-engaged campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Flickr UTC News 
