 About Admissions Academics Research Students Faculty & Staff Athletics Medical Center Email YES Blackboard c2hr Logins Libraries People Finder Campus Maps A-Z Go Vanderbilt University Vanderbilt Home Navigate VU Tools Search VU Caldwell Nanophotonic Materials and Devices Lab Page Navigation Bio People Research Lab Capabilities and Layout Dielectric Functions Publications Patents Links Current Courses Contact Us Welcome Thanks for visiting the Caldwell Nanophotonic Materials and Devices website. Find out more about our team , research , publications and how to join us . Highlights and Latest News Congrats on Publication of Tunable Strong Polariton Coupling in Nano Letters Our work on polaritonic strong coupling within cadmium oxide bilayers was just published in Nano Letters! Congrats to Evan, Kyle, Tom, Ryan, Nader and Jon-Paul! ... KEEP READING Posted on Tuesday, January 1st, 2019 in News | No Comments SiC Workshop Attended by Josh and Ryan Both Josh and Ryan attended and presented at the recent Silicon Carbide Materials & Devices Workshopat the Air Force Research Lab. Josh presented an invited talk on implications for SiC for advanced infrared optics and nanophotonics, while Ryan presented a poster highlighting recent results from a collaboration with Greg Walkers group (Vanderbilt) on harnessing waste...... KEEP READING Posted on Saturday, December 29th, 2018 in News | No Comments New class of anisotropic material discovered Check out Toms and Joshes News and Views covering the applications and implications of the recent work by Ma et. al. onMolybdenum trioxide a new class of natural hyperbolic material... KEEP READING Posted on Tuesday, November 20th, 2018 in News | No Comments Our work using plasmonic band structure to understand polaritons in metamaterials was just published! Our work using plasmonic band structure to understand polariton hybridization in metamaterials was just published in Optics Express! Check it out here!... KEEP READING Posted on Monday, October 29th, 2018 in News | No Comments Refraction of Hyperbolic Polaritons using Phase Change Materials We are delighted to say that our work oncontrolling hyperbolic polaritons in hBN using the phase change material VO2 has been published in Nature Comms! Also Check out Tom and Joshs News and Views published in nature this week! ... KEEP READING Posted on Friday, October 26th, 2018 in News | No Comments Our work probing hyperbolic polaritons using infrared attenuated total reflectance was just published in MRS Communications! Were very excited to have published our work using the attenuated total reflectance technique to probe the hyperbolic phonon polaritons in hexagonal boron nitride. This technique is a great new tool in exploring a host of 2D materials! Check it out here.... KEEP READING Posted on Tuesday, October 2nd, 2018 in News | No Comments Our work chosen as an one of the Top Advances in Engineering! Poking at phonon-polaritons at the nanoscale ... KEEP READING Posted on Wednesday, August 29th, 2018 in News | No Comments Gordon Research Seminar and Conference on Plasmonics and Nanophotonics Tom, Joseph, and Ryan attended and presented posters at the Gordon Research Seminar and Conference on Plasmonics and Nanophotonics in Newry, ME! Tom discussed his recent work on reconfigurable hyperbolic mid-infrared metasurfaces, Joseph presented on the identification of dark hyperbolic modes in hexagonal boron nitride nanostructures with the photothermal induced resonance technique (which was work...... KEEP READING Posted on Sunday, July 22nd, 2018 in News | No Comments Congrats to Jack on an Excellent Summer SSMV research term! Jack Allen, a rising senior at MLK High School in Nashville, has been working with our group as part of the School for Science and Math at Vanderbilt (SSMV). His work focused on measuring angle dependent, infrared reflection spectra from bulk crystals of transition metal dichalcogenides and extracting the corresponding IR dielectric functions. It has...... KEEP READING Posted on Wednesday, July 11th, 2018 in News | No Comments Check out our new publication in the design of graphene plasmon resonant cavities! Congrats to my coauthors, Xiaofei and Xiaofeng for this new work on the Theoretical Analysis of Graphene Plasmon Cavities that was published in Applied Materials Today! Thanks to Vincenzo Giannini and Stefan Maier for including me in this work!... KEEP READING Posted on Wednesday, July 11th, 2018 in News | No Comments New Publication on Strong Coupling in Phonon-Polariton systems Congratulations to Nikolai for his publication Strong Coupling of Epsilon-Near-Zero Phonon Polaritons in Polar Dielectric Heterostructures in Nano letters. We show that the epsilon near zero mode in a thin film of aluminium nitride strongly couples to a phonon polariton in Silicon Carbide. This work features simulations and analysis byTom. ... KEEP READING Posted on Tuesday, June 19th, 2018 in News | No Comments New FTIR! The Caldwell Lab recently received a new FTIR! Currently, the lab is working to make the FTIR fully operational. Joseph, Tom, and Jack smiling next to and examining the new FTIR.... KEEP READING Posted on Wednesday, June 13th, 2018 in News | No Comments Combined group outing! Had a wonderful day on the Harpeth river with the Valentine group. Really enjoyed the lazy morning off and great to get the groups together outside of the lab and conference rooms! Some pictures are below: Just starting out! The Valentine and Caldwell groups ready to go! From left to right: Claire Marvinney (Haglund group,...... KEEP READING Posted on Wednesday, May 16th, 2018 in News | No Comments Congrats to Rodrigo and Chris on an excellent publication Our paper on the sensitivity of surface phonon polaritons to chemical changes to the surface was recently published in ACS Photonics! This included atomically thin oxide layers using atomic-layer deposition on SiC nanopillars and demonstrated anomalous spectral shifts occurring with ultra-thin oxide deposition! Give it a read here.... KEEP READING Posted on Wednesday, May 16th, 2018 in News | No Comments Talks at the Materials Research Society Spring Meeting! The group all attended the Spring Meeting of the Materials Research Society in Phoenix, AZ. Ryan discussed his work in epsilon-near-zero surface plasmon polariton hybridization using cadmium oxide bilayers, Joseph discussed his efforts in photothermal induced resonance (PTIR) measurements of hexagonal boron nitride nanostructures (recently published in Nano Letters). Tom had a super busy...... KEEP READING Posted on Monday, April 16th, 2018 in News | No Comments Older Entries GO Recent Posts Congrats on Publication of Tunable Strong Polariton Coupling in Nano Letters SiC Workshop Attended by Josh and Ryan New class of anisotropic material discovered Our work using plasmonic band structure to understand polaritons in metamaterials was just published! Refraction of Hyperbolic Polaritons using Phase Change Materials Archives January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 October 2017 August 2017 July 2017 May 2017 Recent Comments Your Vanderbilt Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff International Students Media Parents & Family Prospective Students Researchers Sports Fans Visitors & Neighbors 2019 Vanderbilt University Site Development: University Web Communications 
