 Contact Us Facebook Youtube Media Extra-Curricular Links Main Menu Home Members Research Education Publications Workshops News Vanderbilt Resources Vanderbilt University Department of Mechanical Engineering ARMA Wiki Large Visitor Globe Login If you are a member or an alumnus of A.R.M.A. you may login to submit articles and contribute to the website. Username Password Remember Me Log in Forgot your username? Forgot your password? New (10/21/2018): A post-doctoral position is immediately available. See details Here A.R.M.A. is a research laboratory for Advanced Robotics and Mechanism Applications . ARMA is focused on advanced robotics research including robotics, mechanism design, control, and telemanipulation for medical applications. We focus on enabling technologies that necessitate novel design solutions and require contributions in design modeling and control. ARMA has lead the way in advancing several robotics technologies for medical applications including high dexterity snake-like robots for surgery, steerable electrode arrays for cochlear implant surgery, robotics for single port access surgery and natural orifice surgery. We collaborate closely with industry on translating our research. Examples include technologies for snake robots licensed to industry, technologies for micro-surgery of the retina which lead to the formation of AURIS Surgical Robotics Inc., the IREP single port surgery robot which has been licensed to Titan Medical Inc. and serves as the research prototype behind the Titan SPORT (Single Port Orifice Robotic Technology). A.R.M.A. is focused on the following aspects of its mission: Advancing the field of kinematics of mechanisms & robot design: We focus on developing new methods of synthesis, analysis & optimization of novel robots and mechanisms. Our current research efforts include developing a new generation of robots using flexible links, actuation redundancy, and various mechanical architectures. These robots are developed for surgical applications that include microsurgery and minimally invasive surgery. Application-driven research: Although our research includes a considerable emphasis on mathematical methods of modeling of novel architectures, we aim at maintaining a sound balance between vital theoretical research topics and sound applications that benefit society. Our main focus is on developing new robots for applications in surgery. These robots may have complex and novel architectures, or simple, yet useful and beneficial mechanisms . Student involvement in research: Our main educational goal is to offer a productive, competitive, and positive environment in which graduate & undergraduate students can develop. Undergraduate Students are welcome to participate in the ongoing research activity at ARMA pending space availability. See our link for undergraduate research under Education . Outreach: Students and faculty and ARMA view research as an integrated part of making a positive contribution to society.We believe that this can be achieved by solving relevant engineering problems with beneficial applications as well as by training and encouraging new generations of engineers. ARMA routinely recruits high-school students, science teachers, and undergraduate students for hands-on project involvement in research and educational projects. Powered by Joomla! . Valid XHTML and CSS . 
