 Home News Research Publications People Contact Welcome! You have found your way to the website for the Valentine research group. Please take a chance to look around and see what we are all about. Graduate Students We are actively looking for motivated graduate students who are interested in tackling challenging problems at the frontier of science and engineering. Those interested should contact Prof. Valentine . Our Mission We are a team of researchers interested in understanding how nanoscale structuring can be used to engineer a material's optical properties. We are focused on using this understanding to develop novel materials for applications such as communications, imaging, optoelectronic devices, photonic circuitry, and solar energy conversion. The lab is under the direction of Prof. Jason Valentine in the Mechanical Engineering Department at Vanderbilt University . Highlights Dynamic All-Dielectric Metasurfaces Published in Optica Report on the Future of Electronic and Photonic Materials Check out the NSF report on the current and future opportunities in the field. Professor Valentine Selected as a Chancellor's Faculty Fellow Read more about the program here Professor Valentine Wins Chancellor's Award for Research The award reflects the lab's role in the development of dielectric metamaterials. The award was given at the Fall Faculty Assembly Dynamic Emissivity Control Published in Advanced Materials Dynamic Metamaterials Based on Vanadium Dioxide Published in Nano Letters Review on Hot Electron-Based Photodetection Published in Nanophotonics Congrats to Zhihua on Receiving the Best Poster Award for Nanoday 2016! Zhihua's poster on reconfigurable metamaterials was selected as the best poster during Nanoday 2016! Lithography-free Metamaterial with Stable Thermal Emission Published in Advanced Optical Materials Hot Electron Injection in Bilayer MoS 2 Published in Nano Letters Nonlinear Enhancement in Si-based Metasurfaces Published in Nano Letters Silicon-Based Circularly Polarized Light Detector Published in Nature Communications Check out the story at Phys.org Yuanmu Receives the Best Graduate Student Paper Award! Yuanmu's paper in Nano Letters was selected as the best over the past year within the School of Engineering Read more here Large-scale Perfect Reflectors Published in ACS Photonics Featured in Chemical and Engineering News Highlighted in Nature Materials Near-unity Optical Absorption in 2D Materials Published in Applied Physics Letters Electromagnetically Induced Transparency in Dielectric Metamaterials Published in Nature Communications Hot Electron Photodetectors Published in Nano Letters All-Dielectric Perfect Reflectors Published in Applied Physics Letters Highlighted in Nature Photonics All-Dielectric Metasurfaces Published in Nano Letters All-Dielectric Zero-index Metamaterials Published in Nature Photonics Thermoplasmonic Antenna Design and Probing Published in Nano Letters 
