 Skip to main content Main menu Home People Research Publications News Contact Us 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 In the MED lab, our research is primarily in surgical robotics and on other devices to make surgery less invasive and more accurate.For more information(and videos!)aboutour research, click on the research tab above. The MED lab is a laboratory in theMechanical Engineering department at Vanderbilt University, and is a charter member of the Vanderbilt Initiative in Surgery and Engineering . Prospective graduate students, please click here . The MED lab is a place where doctors and engineers work side by side to create new lifesaving medical technologies. We design and construct devices to make interventional medicine more accurate, less invasive, and more effective. With a world-class medical center a 5-minute walk from the lab, we are often in operating rooms observing surgical procedures and conducting experiments with the devices we build. We also patent our work, which enables us to transfer it to commercial products, amplifying its real-world impact. Our partners include startup companies such as Pathfinder Theraputics and Acoustic MedSystems, as well as larger companies including Intuitive Surgical and MathWorks. Current major projects include a surgical robot with tentacle-like, needle-diameter arms that removes tumors from the center of the head through the nose (partnership with Neurosurgery), a parallel robot that reduces invasiveness in cochlear implant surgery which restores hearing to the deaf (partnership with Otolanrygology), endowing the da Vinci with "surgical GPS" to enable more accurate and less invasive kidney surgery (partnership with Urologic Surgery), as well as systems for lung interventions (partnership with Radiology), transurethral laser prostate surgery (partnership with Urologic Surgery), and needle-based treatment of cerebral hemorrhages and epilepsy (partnership with Neurological Surgery). Graduate and undergraduate students in the MED Lab receive a unique educational experience in which they work side by side with surgeons, and are encouraged to pursue not only ongoing lab projects, but also their own ideas as they learn to be innovators in surgical engineering and robotics. Recent News 08/06/2018 The MED Lab makes an appearance on Nashville's largest news network! News Channel 5 aired astory on one of our newest robot systems developed for lung surgery. Check out the story here on YouTube. 04/08/2018 MED Lab director Dr. Robert Webster has been elevated to Full Professor this year. Congratulations, Dr. Webster! 10/20/2017 This year's winner of the MED Lab Salsa Cookoff wasMax Emerson. The competition was tough, butMax's tasty, California-style guacamole came out on top! 10/19/2017 Stephanie Amack scores her third goal of the soccer season, and Vanderbiltbeats University of Tennessee in a nail-biter! Congrats, Steph! 09/05/2017 Max Emerson, Tayfun Efe Ertop and Stephanie Amack all joined the MED Lab this summer. We're looking forward to all the cool research they'll be doing as they pursue graduate degrees! 07/03/2017 At the 2017 ICRA conference in Singapore, Patrick presented his work on Real-Time Redundancy Resolution for Concentric Tube Robots to Avoid Elastic Instability. He was awarded best poster in the C4Surgical Robotics Workshop. Congrats, Patrick! 06/26/2017 MED Lab post-doc Isuru Godage will be heading to Chicago this fall as an assistant professor in the School of Computing at DePaul University. Congrats, Isuru! 06/26/2017 MED Lab post-doc Loris Fichera has accepted a faculty position in the Computer Science department at Worcester Polytechnic Institute. Congratulations to Loris! 05/05/2017 Richard Hendrick defended his PhD dissertation today, entitled "System Design and Elastic Stability Modeling of Transendoscopic Continuum Robots". Congratulations, Rich! 04/01/2017 MED Lab student Patrick Anderson was awarded an NSF Graduate Research Fellowship this year. Congratulations, Patrick! 2014 All text, images, and videos on this site are protected under United States and International copyright laws, treaties, and conventions. All Right Reserved. Duplication, modification, or redistribution, in whole or in part, requires explicit written permission. 
