 Lawrence (Larry) W. Dowdy Professor of Computer Science and Computer Engineering, Emeritus Larry Dowdy obtained the B.S. degree in Mathematics from Florida State University in 1974. He then went to Duke University where he obtained both an M.A. degree and a Ph.D. in Computer Science in 1976 and 1977, respectively. From 1978-81, Dr. Dowdy was an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at the University of Maryland at College Park . From 1981-2014, he was a faculty member at Vanderbilt University in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science . In 1987-88, he spent a sabbatical year at the Institut fr Informatik at the University of Erlangen- Nrnberg , Germany . From 1995-98, he served as the Chair of the Computer Science Department. Professor Dowdy served as Vanderbilt'sDean of Students from 1998-2001. During 2002-03, he was on sabbatical leave ( pictures ) at the University of Leeds , England, in the School of Computing . In the past, ProfessorDowdy served a member of the IFIP Working Group 7.3, an international group of researchers in the area of performance measurement and modeling of computer systems. Dr. Dowdy also served as the Chair of SIGMETRICS and has served as the senior editor of the "Performance Supplement" project, a joint project sponsored by ACM SIGMETRICS and the Computer Measurement Group (CMG). He has co-authored three books, P.S. to Operating Systems , Capacity Planning and Performance Modeling , and Performance by Design published by Prentice Hall, and has received research, teaching, and administrative awards. Professor Dowdy has taught many courses, primarily in the areas of operating systems and performance analysis. He has also been involved in the One Laptop Per Child initiative and with Engineers Without Borders . In 2012, he spent three months in South America ( blog ). In 2014, Larry retired from Vanderbilt University as an emeritus faculty member. Larry and his wife, Sharon, are proud of their children, David and Erin, of their son-in-law, Matt, and of their three grandchildren, Chessie , Ethan, and Owen. Contact: Email: larry.dowdy@vanderbilt.edu Phone: 615-417-8447 
