 Stephen R. (Steve) Schach Professor of Computer Science, Emeritus Professor of Computer Engineering, Emeritus I obtained an M.S. in Physics at the Weizmann Institute of Science in 1972, and a Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics at the University of Cape Town in 1973. Between 1972 and 1983, I held faculty positions in the Departments of Applied Mathematics and Computer Science at the University of Cape Town. In 1983 I joined the Department of Computer Science at Vanderbilt University. My research interests are in the field of software engineering in general and specifically in the empirical analysis of open-source software. I have written a number of textbooks on software engineering, object-oriented software engineering, and object-oriented systems analysis and design. I have over 130 refereed publications to my name. I consult internationally and serve as an expert witness on intellectual property and software. I now live in Sydney, Australia. I have recently authored or co-authored eight works of fiction: seven thrillers and a satire . The first book, a historical spy thriller set in the Kingdom of Prussia in 1747, entitled Old Bach Is Come , was published in March 2013. The second, Coopers Island , is a World War II spy thriller set in New Zealand. Highly Satisfactory , a spy thriller published in April 2014, is also set in World War II. The plot is constructed around the decision to drop the atomic bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. A Matter of Trust is set in Kyoto, Japan. A specialist in offshore trusts believes that he is the victim of a large-scale conspiracy. Bakerloo Line is a new twist on the Israeli Mossad agents vs. Palestinian terrorists genre; Greek fascists capture the Palestinian's arms cache and decide to use the weaponry to blow up Waterloo Tube Station in London. The book was published in April 2015. Rudolf Hess's flight to Scotland in May 1941 is the basis for the sixth book, Double Two , a World War II spy thriller set in western Scotland and south-eastern England. The publication date was April 2016. The Book Buyer , which appeared in print in July 2017, is a hilarious satire of the modern publishing industry, as well as classical detective stories. Crossword Traitor was published in April 2018. Set in World War II, information and disinformation is sent via clues and solutions of cryptic crossword puzzles. Object-Oriented and Classical Software Engineering , Eighth Edition Web site of Object-Oriented and Classical Software Engineering , Eighth Edition Old Bach Is Come Web site of Old Bach Is Come Coopers Island Web site of Coopers Island Highly Satisfactory Web site of Highly Satisfactory A Matter of Trust Web site of A Matter of Trust Bakerloo Line Web site of Bakerloo Line Double Two Web site of Double Two The Book Buyer Web site of The Book Buyer Crossword Traitor Web site of Crossword Traitor Phone: 615.322.2796 Fax: 615.343.5459 E-Mail: srs@vuse.vanderbilt.edu Mailing Address: Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Vanderbilt University Box 1679, Station B Nashville, TN 37235 
