 Reza Azarderakhsh Research Publications Presentations Teaching Outreach Services Menu Dr. Reza Azarderakhsh Assistant Professor Menu Reza Azarderakhsh Research Publications Presentations Teaching Outreach Services Reza Azarderakhsh I am an assistant professor in the Department of Computer and Electrical Engineering and Computer Science ,at Florida Atlantic University . I amalso cross-appointed with I-SENSE as a fellow researcher. Prior to joining FAU, I was with Rochester Institute of Technology as an assistant professor and founding director of applied cryptography and information security lab. Prior that, I was an NSERC postdoc research fellow at the Center for Applied Cryptographic Research , Department of Combinatorics and Optimization at the University of Waterloo . I received my PhD. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Western University . I am affiliated as a supervisor member of CryptoWorks21 . I am also serving as an Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems (TCAS-I) . My research has been supported by NSF, NIST, ARO, Florida Center for Cyber Security (FC2), and Texas Instruments. My primary research interests are in cryptography and security, with particular interest in cryptographic engineering, side-channel analysis, elliptic curve cryptography, finite field arithmetic, post-quantum cryptography, and hardware/software implementations. NIST Submission for Post-Quantum Cryptography is available here . Authors are:David Jao, Reza Azarderakhsh, Matthew Campagna, Craig Costello, Luca De Feo, Basil Hess, Amir Jalali, Brian Koziel, Brian LaMacchia, Patrick Longa, Michael Naehrig, Joost Renes, Vladimir Soukharev, David Urbanik. Open Positions : I usually look for talented students for PhD studies to apply. Please send an email with your CV, transcripts, and IELTS/TOEFL and GRE scores. Post-Quantum Cryptography Contact Information: Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science, Florida Atlantic University 777 Glades Road, Room EE 314, Boca Raton, FL 33431-0991 Phone: (561) 297-4889 Email: razarderakhsh@fau.edu Reza Azarderakhsh Assistant Professor 777 Glades Road, Room EE 314, Boca Raton, FL 33431-0991 | Phone: (561) 297-4889 | Email: razarderakhsh@fau.edu 
