 Borko Furht, Ph.D. Scientist | Educator | Author | Consultant | Speaker Menu Home Contributions Research expand child menu Projects Books Publications expand child menu Journal Papers Conference Proceedings Book Chapters and Publications Technical Reports Patents and Patent Applications Invited Lectures Academic expand child menu Courses Taught Dissertations Supervised University Services Awards Editorial Activities Home Borko Furht Professor of Computer Science and Engineering Director of the NSF Industry/University Cooperative Research Center Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, Florida, USA bfurht@fau.edu Borko Furht is a professor in the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and Computer Science ( CEECS ) at Florida Atlantic University ( FAU ) in Boca Raton, Florida. He is also Director of the NSF-sponsored Industry/University Cooperative Research Center on Advanced Knowledge Enablement at FAU. From 2010 to 2013, he served as Chair of the CEECS Department, and from 2002-2009 as Chair of Computer Science and Engineering Department at FAU. From 2006-2008, he was also Senior Assistant Vice President for Engineering and Technology at FAU. Before joining FAU, he was a vice president of research and a senior director of development at Modcomp (Ft. Lauderdale), a computer company of Daimler Benz, Germany, a professor at University of Miami in Coral Gables, Florida, and a senior researcher in the Institute Boris Kidric-Vinca, Yugoslavia. Professor Furht received Ph.D. degree in electrical and computer engineering from the University of Belgrade . His current research is in multimedia systems, multimedia big data, video coding and compression, 3D video and image systems, wireless multimedia, cloud computing, and social networks. He has been presently Principal Investigator and Co-PI of several multiyear, multimillion dollar projects. He received total funding of $15 million from government agencies including NSF, NIH, Department of Navy, DoD, and NASA, and private industries including IBM, Google, Apple, LexisNexis, Motorola, Emerson, and others. He is the author of numerous books and articles in the areas of multimedia, computer architecture, real-time computing, and operating systems. He is a founder and editor-in-chief of the Journal of Multimedia Tools and Applications (Springer) ,and he recently co-founded Journal of Big Data (Springer) . He has received several technical and publishing awards, and has consulted for many high-tech companies including IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Xerox, General Electric, JPL, NASA, Honeywell, and RCA. He was named as 2013 Researcher of the Year at FAU. He has also served as a consultant to various colleges and universities. He has given many invited talks, keynote lectures, seminars, and tutorials. He served as Chairman and Director on the Board of Directors of several high-tech companies and as an expert witness for Cisco, Qualcomm, Adobe, and Bell Canada. He is presently Special Advisor for Technology and Innovations for the United Nations Global Millennium Development Foundation. Curriculum Vitae NSF CAKE at FAU NSF CAKE Brochure Industry Nominated Technology Breakthroughs Press Releases and News Google Scholar ACM Digital Library Research Gate Favorite Quotes Gallery Home Contributions Research expand child menu Projects Books Publications expand child menu Journal Papers Conference Proceedings Book Chapters and Publications Technical Reports Patents and Patent Applications Invited Lectures Academic expand child menu Courses Taught Dissertations Supervised University Services Awards Editorial Activities Borko Furht, Ph.D. Proudly powered by WordPress 
