 Tim Althoff - Assistant Professor in Computer Science at University of Washington Tim Althoff I develop computational methods to improve human well-being, combining techniques from data science, social network analysis, and natural language processing. My research leverages detailed behavioral data from smartphones, smartwatches, and social interactions at the scale of billions of actions taken by millions of people, to realize new types of scientific approaches that generate actionable insights about our lives, health, and happiness. I am looking for PhD students, so if you're interested please apply to UW Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering . Go Huskies! Recent highlights Large-scale physical activity data reveal worldwide activity inequality Nature 2017 NY Times Altmetric Top 100 Large-scale Analysis of Counseling Conversations: An Application of Natural Language Processing to Mental Health Best Paper, IMIA 2017 BBC TV NY Times Influence of Pokmon Go on Physical Activity: Study and Implications #1 most tweeted JMIR article 2016 CNN Wall Street Journal Publications Teaching Biographical Sketch 2019 Goal-setting And Achievement In Activity Tracking Apps: A Case Study Of MyFitnessPal Mitchell Gordon, Tim Althoff, Jure Leskovec WWW 2019 pdf forthcoming 2018 Learning Individualized Cardiovascular Responses from Large-scale Wearable Sensors Data Haraldur T. Hallgrmsson, Filip Jankovic, Tim Althoff, Luca Foschini NIPS ML4H 2018 pdf Data Science for Human Well-being Tim Althoff Ph.D. Thesis, Stanford University thesis defense Modeling Interdependent and Periodic Real-World Action Sequences Takeshi Kurashima, Tim Althoff, Jure Leskovec WWW 2018 pdf Ill Be Back: On the Multiple Lives of Users of a Mobile Activity Tracking Application Zhiyuan Lin, Tim Althoff, Jure Leskovec WWW 2018 pdf Modeling Individual Cyclic Variation in Human Behavior Emma Pierson, Tim Althoff, Jure Leskovec WWW 2018 pdf Psychomotor function measured via online activity predicts motor vehicle fatality risk Tim Althoff, Eric Horvitz, Ryen W. White NPJ Digital Medicine (1) 2018 pdf suppl. inf. method details 2017 Large-scale physical activity data reveal worldwide activity inequality Tim Althoff, Rok Sosic, Jennifer L. Hicks, Abby C. King, Scott L. Delp, Jure Leskovec Nature (547.7663) 2017 pdf suppl. inf. Nature project press releases dataset Population-Scale Pervasive Health Tim Althoff IEEE Pervasive Computing 2017 pdf Harnessing the Web for Population-Scale Physiological Sensing: A Case Study of Sleep and Performance Tim Althoff, Eric Horvitz, Ryen W. White, Jamie Zeitzer WWW 2017 pdf appendix slides How Gamification Affects Physical Activity: Large-scale Analysis of Walking Challenges in a Mobile Application Ali Shameli, Tim Althoff, Amin Saberi, Jure Leskovec WWW 2017 pdf slides Online Actions with Offline Impact: How Online Social Networks Influence Online and Offline User Behavior Tim Althoff, Pranav Jindal, Jure Leskovec WSDM 2017 pdf slides 2016 Large-scale Analysis of Counseling Conversations: An Application of Natural Language Processing to Mental Health Tim Althoff*, Kevin Clark*, Jure Leskovec (* equal contribution) TACL 2016 IMIA Best Paper Award 2016 pdf slides project dataset Influence of Pokmon Go on Physical Activity: Study and Implications Tim Althoff, Ryen White, Eric Horvitz JMIR 12/06/2016 ( #1 most tweeted JMIR article 2016 ; #5 most tweeted JMIR article all time ) arXiv 10/06/2016 pdf arXiv Quantifying Dose Response Relationships Between Physical Activity and Health Using Propensity Scores Tim Althoff, Rok Sosic, Jennifer L. Hicks, Abby C. King, Scott L. Delp, Jure Leskovec NIPS Workshop on Machine Learning for Health 2016 workshop 2015 TimeMachine: Timeline Generation for Knowledge-Base Entities Tim Althoff, Xin Luna Dong, Kevin Murphy, Safa Alai, Van Dang, Wei Zhang KDD 2015 pdf full version slides poster demo Donor Retention in Online Crowdfunding Communities: A Case Study of DonorsChoose.org Tim Althoff, Jure Leskovec WWW 2015 pdf slides 2014 How to Ask for a Favor: A Case Study on the Success of Altruistic Requests Tim Althoff, Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, Dan Jurafsky ICWSM 2014 pdf slides dataset 2013 Analysis and Forecasting of Trending Topics in Online Media Streams Tim Althoff, Damian Borth, Jrn Hees, Andreas Dengel ACM Multimedia 2013 pdf slides Analysis and Forecasting of Trending Topics in Online Media Tim Althoff Master's Thesis, University of Kaiserslautern, Germany April 2013 pdf slides 2012 Detection Bank: An Object Detection Based Video Representation for Multimedia Event Recognition Tim Althoff, Hyun Oh Song, Trevor Darrell ACM Multimedia 2012 pdf poster Sparselet Models for Efficient Multiclass Object Detection Hyun Oh Song, Stefan Zickler, Tim Althoff, Ross Girshick, Mario Fritz, Christopher Geyer, Pedro Felzenszwalb, Trevor Darrell ECCV 2012 pdf project demo video Don't Look Back: Post-hoc Category Detection via Sparse Reconstruction Hyun Oh Song, Mario Fritz, Tim Althoff, Trevor Darrell UC Berkeley, Tech. Rep. UCB/EECS-2012-16 Jan. 2012 pdf archive 2011 Balanced Clustering for Content-based Image Browsing Tim Althoff, Adrian Ulges, Andreas Dengel German Computer Science Society, Informatiktage March 2011 pdf project demo 2010 Scalable Clustering for Hierarchical Content-based Browsing of Large-scale Image Collections Tim Althoff Bachelor's Thesis, University of Kaiserslautern, Germany September 2010 pdf Tim Althoff is an assistant professor in the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering at the University of Washington. His research advances computational methods to improve human well-being, combining techniques from Data Mining, Social Network Analysis, and Natural Language Processing. Tim holds Ph.D. and M.S. degrees from the Computer Science Department at Stanford University, where he worked with Jure Leskovec . Prior to his PhD, Tim obtained M.S. and B.S. degrees from the University of Kaiserslautern, Germany. He has received several fellowships and awards including the SAP Stanford Graduate Fellowship, Fulbright scholarship, German Academic Exchange Service scholarship, the German National Merit Foundation scholarship, and a Best Paper Award by the International Medical Informatics Association. Tims research has been covered internationally by news outlets including BBC, CNN, The Economist, The Wall Street Journal, and The New York Times. UW CSE599: Data Science for Human Well-being (Winter 2018/2019) The popularity of wearable and mobile devices, sensors, and online social networks has generated an explosion of detailed behavioral data. These massive digital traces provide us with an unparalleled opportunity to realize new types of scientific approaches that enable novel insights about our lives, health, and happiness. However, gaining actionable insights from these data requires new computational approaches that turn observational, scientifically weak data into strong scientific results and can computationally test domain theories at scale. Key challenges include appropriate data collection and preparation, computational modeling of constructs in health and social sciences to model domain knowledge and questions, appropriate design of computational experiments and observational studies, and how to infer well-being from noisy raw data, or multimodal data sources. This seminar will review progress and discuss current frontiers in each of these challenges. We will discuss a variety of data sources (e.g., social networks, social interactions, phone data, conversation transcripts) and how to leverage these to improve human well-being (e.g., clinical use, public health, monitoring vs interventions, mental health, global health, design of online communities). Each week will consistent of paper reading, presentation, and discussion. In contrast to the highly-curated presentation of content in a more introductory course, students will be expected to contribute to all aspects of the definition and content of this course. This will include identifying relevant content and contributing to discussion of that content. Over the quarter, students will develop an group research project in the area of data science for human well-being. Course enrollment is limited to 15 students. Please fill out this form to apply for the course before December 7, 2018 (midnight PT). You will receive a response by January 4, 2018 (midnight PT). Assistant Professor Computer Science University of Washington Allen Center #648 185 E Stevens Way NE Seattle, WA 98195 Follow @timalthoff CV Google Scholar linkedin Many thanks to David Jurgens for the site template/inspiration 
