Main Website Please visit my main website for details on research, teaching, publications, etc. Amazon Professor of Machine Learning Carlos Guestrin is the Amazon Professor of Machine Learning at the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering at the University of Washington. He was a co-founder and CEO of Turi (originally GraphLab Inc.), focusing large-scale machine learning and graph analytics, which was acquired by Apple. His previous positions include the Finmeccanica Associate Professor at Carnegie Mellon University and senior researcher at the Intel Research Lab in Berkeley. Carlos received his PhD and Master from Stanford University, and a Mechatronics Engineer degree from the University of Sao Paulo, Brazil. Carlos' work has been recognized by awards at a number of conferences and two journals: KDD 2007 and 2010, IPSN 2005 and 2006, VLDB 2004, NIPS 2003 and 2007, UAI 2005, ICML 2005, AISTATS 2010, JAIR in 2007 & 2012, and JWRPM in 2009. He is also a recipient of the ONR Young Investigator Award, NSF Career Award, Alfred P. Sloan Fellowship, IBM Faculty Fellowship, the Siebel Scholarship and the Stanford Centennial Teaching Assistant Award. Carlos was named one of the 2008 `Brilliant 10' by Popular Science Magazine, received the IJCAI Computers and Thought Award and the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE). He is a former member of the Information Sciences and Technology (ISAT) advisory group for DARPA. Honors and Awards Amazon Professorship of Machine Learning 2012 IJCAII-JAIR Best Paper runner-up prize in the Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research (JAIR) for Optimal Value of Information in Graphical Models with Andreas Krause. This prize is awarded to an outstanding paper and a runner-up published in JAIR in the preceding five calendar years. Best Paper Award in the Sixteenth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD 2010) for Connecting the Dots Between News Articles with Dafna Shahaf. Best Student Paper Award in International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics (AISTATS 2010) for Focused Belief Propagation for Query-Specific Inference with Anton Chechetka. Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE) , 2009. IJCAI 2009 Computers and Thought Award . See the slides and video of the talk . Best Research Paper Award from the ASCE Journal of Water Resources Planning and Management Engineering for Efficient Sensor Placement Optimization for Securing Large Water Distribution Networks with Andreas Krause, Jure Leskovec, Jeanne VanBriesen, and Christos Faloutsos. Member of the DARPA Information Sciences and Technology (ISAT) advisory group. Finmeccanica Chair in Computer Science. 2008 "Brilliant 10" by Popular Science Magazine. ONR Young Investigator Award, (2008). Honorable Mention for Outstanding Paper Award in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS 2007) for Efficient Inference for Distributions on Permutations with Jon Huang and Leo Guibas. Best Paper Award in the Thirteenth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD 2007)
