 Kurtis Heimerl, University of Washington Kurtis Heimerl University of Washington Computer Science Change ICTD@UW DUB Contact info: Office: CSE 528 Location: Computer Science & Engineering University of Washington Box 352350 Seattle, WA 98195-2350 Phone: (206) 616-6605 email: kheimerl@cs.washington.edu twitter: @kheimerl CV: Curriculum Vitae I'm Kurtis Heimerl, Assistant Professor at the University of Washington. I work with the wonderful students in the Change and ICTD groups. I work broadly on the space of technology for poverty alleviation, specifically Internet Access. I have published widely, including top conferences such as ICTD, CHI, and NSDI. I was a recipient of the 2014 MIT 35 under 35 award , the 2018 UW early career Diamond Award , and won Best Paper awards at both CHI and DySPAN. I occasionally publish on the UWCSE ICTD Blog My major research focus is on the topic of rural Internet access, with a focus on cellular technologies. My thesis topic was the The Village Base Station (VBTS), a low-cost, low-power cellular system (based off OpenBTS ). Our goal is to provide community cellular : local, community-owned cellular networks in areas without existing cellular coverage. We started a company to commercialize this research, Endaga , which then joined Facebook . Our current research focuses on two problems. First, rural infrastructure is subject to constant failures and this often requires the operator to send engineers out. This travel is expensive and causes rural infrastructure to be unsustainably expensive. We propose to instead leverage the local repair cultural and knowledge to have local laypeoples conduct simple repairs. Second, we are working on expanding our community cellular model to LTE, enabling lower-cost communications for rural areas. I advise the following students and postdocs: Spencer Sevilla (postdoc) working on community LTE. Esther Jang (grad) on rural repair. Matt Johnson (grad) on distributed LTE. Matt Ziegler (grad) on conservation. Rowan Phipps (undergrad) on cellular security. And have the following alumni from our group: Kushal Shah (masters) on big data and development. Now at Grab. Publications Also see my profiles on: Google Scholar or ACM DL . 2019 Fresh Insights: User Research Towards a Market Information Service for Bihari Vegetable Farmers Matthew Ziegler, Lokesh Garg, Shailesh Tiwary, Aditya Vashistha, and Kurtis Heimerl. Tenth International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies and Development (ICTD '19) Investigated the use and development of price information systems in Buxar, Bihar. Conference Paper 2018 dLTE: Building a more WiFi-like Cellular Network (Instead of the Other Way Around) Matthew Johnson, Spencer Sevilla, Esther Jang, and Kurtis Heimerl. HotNETS 2018 Discussed dLTE, a fully distributed form of LTE. Workshop Paper Connecting Communities through Mobile Networks: The VBTS-CoCoMoNets Project Mary Claire Barela, Josephine Dionisio, Kurtis Heimerl, Manuel Victor Sapitula, and Cedric Angelo Festin. Global Information Society Watch 2018: Community Networks Explained the context and deployments of our Philippine GSM networks. Book Chapter Building Community LTE Networks with CoLTE Spencer Sevilla, Pathirat Kosakanchit, Matthew Johnson, and Kurtis Heimerl. The community network manual : how to build the Internet yourself Provided a manual for the installation and operation of CoLTE. Book Chapter Designing Sustainable Rural Infrastructure Through the Lens of OpenCellular Kashif Ali, Kurtis Heimerl. Communications of the ACM, August 2018 Discussed the design of OpenCellular for rural contexts. Invited Article ThinSIM-based Attacks on Mobile Money Systems Rowan Phipps, Shrirang Mare, Peter Ney, Jennifer Rose Webster, Kurtis Heimerl. First ACM conference on Computing & Sustainable Societies (COMPASS) '18 Explored Thin-SIM based mobile money attacks and found that most STK and USSD applications are vulnerable. Conference Paper Crowdsourcing Rural Network Maintenance and Repair via Network Messaging Esther Jang, Mary Claire Barela, Matt Johnson, Philip Martinez, Cedric Festin, Maragaret Lynn, Josephine Dionisio, Kurtis Heimerl. ACM SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI) '18 Examined the readiness of a rural Philippine community to infrastructure self-repair. Conference Paper 2017 An Investigation of Phone Upgrades in Remote Community Cellular Networks Kushal Shah, Philip Martinez, Emre Tepedelenlioglu, Shaddi Hasan, Cedric Angelo Festin, Joshua Blumenstock, Jo Dionisio, Kurtis Heimerl. International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies and Development (ICTD) '17 Examined the factors that influence LTE phone adoption in the Philippines and Indonesia. Conference Paper Unplanned Obsolescence: Hardware and Software After Collapse Esther Jang, Matt Johnson, Edward Burnell, Kurtis Heimerl. Proceedings of the 2017 Workshop on Computing Within Limits Explored how long hardware and software would function after societal collapse. Workshop Paper 2016 Towards Building a Community Cellular Network in the Philippines: Initial Site Survey Observations Mary Claire Barela, Mae Sincere Blanco, Philip Martinez, Miguel Carlo Purisima, Kurtis Heimerl, Matthew Podolsky, Eric Brewer, Cedric Angelo Festin. International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies and Development (ICTD) '16 Explored potential CCN sites in the Philippines. Conference Note 2015 Analysis of Smartphone Adoption and Usage in a Rural Community Cellular Network Kurtis Heimerl, Anuvind Menon, Shaddi Hasan, Kashif Ali, Eric Brewer, Tapan Parikh. International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies and Development (ICTD) '15 Analyzed smartphone adoption in a rural Indonesian community. Conference Note A Longitudinal Study of Local, Sustainable, Small-Scale Cellular Networks Kurtis Heimerl, Shaddi Hasan, Kashif Ali, Eric Brewer, Tapan Parikh. Information Technologies & International Development (ITID) 2015 A longitudinal analysis of a community cellular network in Papua, Indonesia. Invited Journal Article 2014 Rescue Base Station Ibrahim Ghaznavi, Kurtis Heimerl, Umar Muneer, Abdullah Hamid, Kashif Ali, Tapan Parikh, Umar Saif. 5th Annual ACM Symposium on Computing for Development (DEV) Developed a quick setup GSM cellular solution for disaster-affected regions. Conference Paper GSM Whitespaces: An Opportunity for Rural Cellular Service Shaddi Hasan, Kurtis Heimerl, Kate Harrison, Kashif Ali, Sean Roberts, Anant Sahai, Eric Brewer IEEE Dynamic Spectrum Access Access Networks 2014 (DySPAN) Implemented and evaluated GSM Whitespace, a system for shared spectrum access of the GSM cellular bands. Conference Paper, Best Paper Award 2013 An Experiment in Reducing Cellular Base Station Power Draw With Virtual Coverage Kurtis Heimerl, Shaddi Hasan, Kashif Ali, Tapan Parikh, Eric Brewer 4th Annual Symposium on Computing for Development (DEV) Evaluated virtual coverage in the context of a real-world deployment in rural Papua, Indonesia Conference Paper Local, Sustainable, Small-Scale Cellular Networks Kurtis Heimerl, Shaddi Hasan, Kashif Ali, Eric Brewer, Tapan Parikh International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies and Development (ICTD) '13 Developed and deployed a small-scale rural cellular network in Papua, Indonesia, showing that it is economically sustainable and benefits the local population Conference Paper Expanding Rural Cellular Networks with Virtual Coverage Kurtis Heimerl, Kashif Ali, Joshua Blumenstock, Brian Gawalt, Eric Brewer. 10th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI) Demonstrated and implemented a novel technique for saving power in rural cellular networks, called "Virtual Coverage" Conference Paper, Community Award Poster and Demonstration of Expanding Rural Cellular Networks with Virtual Coverage Kurtis Heimerl, Kashif Ali, Joshua Blumenstock, Brian Gawalt, Eric Brewer 10th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation Demonstrations(NSDI) Demonstration of Virtual Coverage Demonstration Convergence of Position Auctions under Myopic Best-Response Dynamics Matthew Cary, Aparna Das, Benjamin Edelman, Ioannis Goitis, Kurtis Heimerl, Anna Karlin, Scott Kominers, Claire Mathieu, Michael Schwarz ACM Transactions on Economics and Computation '13 Journal Paper 2012 Communitysourcing: Engaging Local Crowds to Perform Expert Work Via Physical Kiosks Kurtis Heimerl, Brian Gawalt, Kuang Chen, Tapan Parikh, Bjrn Hartmann ACM SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI) '12 Developed and evaluated CommunitySourcing ; the use of physical kiosks to engage local crowds of users to perform high-value work for localized rewards Conference Paper, Best Paper Award Communitysourcing: Engaging Local Crowds to Perform Expert Work Via Physical Kiosks Kurtis Heimerl, Brian Gawalt, Kuang Chen, Tapan Parikh, Bjrn Hartmann Interactivity at ACM SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI) '12 Demonstration of CommunitySourcing Demonstration How Users Understand Cellular Infrastructure Kurtis Heimerl, Tapan Parikh Interviewed people from both developed, developing, urban and rural areas about their understanding of cellular infrastructure Technical Report 2010 A Case Study on Designing Interfaces for Multiple Users in Developing Regions Kurtis Heimerl, Janani Vasudev, Kelly G. Buchanan, Tapan Parikh, Eric Brewer 1st Annual Symposium on Computing for Development (DEV) Developed and deployed a single display groupware solution in a low-income school in Bangalore, India Conference Paper Metamouse: Improving Multi-user Sharing of Existing Educational Applications Kurtis Heimerl, Janani Vasudev, Kelly G. Buchanan, Tapan Parikh, Eric Brewer International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies and Development (ICTD) '10 Developed, deployed, and evaluated a novel single-display groupware technology supporting existing educational games in developing regions Conference Paper The Village Base Station Kurtis Heimerl, Eric Brewer ACM Workshop on Networked Systems for Developing Regions (NSDR) '10 Proposed the use of OpenBTS for bringing cellular coverage to rural areas Workshop Paper 2009 Message Phone: A User Study and Analysis of Asynchronous Messaging in Rural Uganda Kurtis Heimerl, RJ Honicky, Eric Brewer, Tapan Parikh ACM Workshop on Networked Systems for Developing Regions (NSDR) '09 Conducted field study of mPhone asynchronous voice system Workshop Paper Metamouse: Multiple Mice for Legacy Applications Kurtis Heimerl, Divya Ramachandran, Joyojeet Pal, Eric Brewer, Tapan Parikh Demo at International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies and Development (ICTD) Demonstration of basic Metamouse features and technology Demonstration Metamouse: Multiple Mice for Legacy Applications Kurtis Heimerl, Divya Ramachandran, Joyojeet Pal, Eric Brewer, Tapan Parikh Work In Progress at Computer-Human Interaction (CHI) Conducted user study on Metamouse in Bangalore, India Work in Progress Transforming Community-based Healthcare with CommScape Kuang Chen, Kurtis Heimerl, Tapan Parikh, Christine Robson, Beth Trushkowsky Technical Report Enabling Innovation Below the Communication API Ganesh Ananthanarayanan, Kurtis Heimerl, Matei Zaharia, Michael Demmer, Teemu Koponen, Arsalan Tavakoli, Scott Shenker, Ion Stoica Technical Report 2007 Greedy Bidding Strategies for Keyword Auctions Matthew Cary, Aparna Das, Benjamin Edelman, Ioannis Giotis, Kurtis Heimerl, Anna R. Karlin, Claire Mathieu, Michael Schwarz ACM Conference on Electronic Commerce 2007 Conference Paper Teaching Autumn 2018: CSE 461: Computer Networks . Winter 2018: CSE 461: Computer Networks . Fall 2017: CSE 590:Information and Communication Technology and Development (ICTD) PMP . Winter 2017: CSE 461: Computer Networks . Fall 2016: CSE 599:Information and Communication Technology and Development (ICTD) . Press/Awards 2018 We won third place grand prize at the Mozilla WiNS challenge . Our partner networks in Indonesia and The Philippines win an ISIF Community Networking grant and award. Endaga is mentioned in USAID's Higher Education Solutions Network Impact Report . Matt Johnson wins an NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Award . Esther jang win an honorable mention and Spencer Sevilla wins 3rd place in the Wireless Innovation for a Networked Society (WINS) Challenges . I won the College of Engineering Diamond Award for Early Career Achievement . 2016 Facebook's Huge Plan to Shake Up Dull World of Telecoms Fortune, February 2016 UW computer scientists to make financial products better and more available for the poor EurekAlert!, January 2016 2015 No phone signal in a disaster? Solar network in a box to the rescue Pakistan Today, September 2015 DIY telecoms The Economist, March 2015 Pushing cell service to remote areas, disaster zones GCN, January 2015 Kill Dead Zones With This Small Box Popular Science, January 2015 Reports cast doubt on expanded role for MNOs Policy Tracker, January 2015 Connecting the Unconnected Billion Emerging Frontiers, January 2015 Empowering locals to bring phone signal to remote areas Springwise, January 2015 2014 How to bring mobile coverage to the remotest parts of the world Quartz, December 2014 Is Endaga's Telco-In-A-Box The Cell Phone Solution For The Next Billion? Fast Company, December 2014 Endaga raises $1.2M to help it bring cellular to remote villages Fierce Wireless Tech, December 2014 Endaga Brings Rural Villages Online With a Cell Network in a Box re/code, December 2014 At the Wheel: Part 1 Part 2 Part 3 Bloomberg TV Indonesia, November 2014 Tech Now! Bloomberg TV Indonesia, November 2014 Outback Technology Berkeley Engineer, November 2014 Kurtis Heimerl Named MIT Technology Review Innovator Under 35 Berkeley eGrad, September 2014 This startup gives rural entrepreneurs the tech to operate their own mobile networks Tech in Asia, September 2014 This little box brings cell service to the most remote places on Earth Bacon Reader, August 2014 Kurtis Heimerl: 35 Innovators under 35 MIT Technology Review, August 2014 New Eavesdropping Equipment Sucks All Data Off Your Phone Newsweek, June 2014 From balloons to shrimp-filled shallows, the future is wireless Reuters, April 2014 Cellular's open source future is latched to tallest tree in the village Ars Technica, February 2014 2013 2013: The Best Communication Stories of the Year MIT Technology Review. December 2013 How Remote Places Can Get Cellular Coverage by Doing It Themselves MIT Technology Review. December 11, 2013 Mexico sees its first open-source village cellphone network USA Today. September 16th, 2013 Range Networks: Open Source Cellular Networks Daily Wireless. March 26th, 2013 Cell system used in Antarctica may help to cover the Plains Network World. March 23rd, 2013 2012 Demo Hour ACM Interactions, December 2012 Powered by the sun, telcos open up cellphone's final frontier Reuters. December 20th, 2012 "Guru Besar" OpenBTS Berduet di Serpong (Indonesian) Kompass. November 1st, 2012 Hacked Vending Machine Trades Snacks For Skills Tech News Daily. April 27th, 2012 
