 Justin Hsia Justin Hsia About Teaching Research Fun Contact About Me I am a Lecturer in the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering (CSE) at the University of Washington, Seattle (UW). I received my education (Ph.D., M.S., dual B.S.) primarily from the department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Berkeley , where I was part of the Networked Dynamical Systems Group under Professor Murat Arcak. Teaching My teaching interests are in lower division computer science and engineering courses. Experienced in teaching Computer Architecture, CS Principles, Circuits, and Control. Other interests include Embedded Systems, Computer-Aided Design (CAD), and Signals and Systems. I am interested in the AP Computer Science Principles Exam and am involved with UW in the High School as the Coordinator for CSE120. Courses Taught The links below will take you to the course webpage for the most recent iteration that I taught. UC Berkeley student evaluations can be found at the HKN Database . UW ratings can be found by searching for 'Hsia' in the Course Evaluation Catalog (UW login required). CSE 120: Computer Science Principles Introduces fundamental concepts of computer science and computational thinking. Basics of programming and a survey of some "big ideas" in CS. Last taught: Winter 2019 CSE 333: Systems Programming Substantial programming experience in languages that expose machine characteristics and low-level data representation (C and C++). Last taught: Spring 2018 CSE 351: The Hardware/Software Interface Computer organization examines key computational abstraction levels below modern high-level languages. Last taught: Autumn 2018 CSE 369: Introduction to Digital Design Introduces the implementation of digital logic and its specification and simulation via SystemVerilog and FPGAs. Last taught: Winter 2019 CSE 410: Computer Systems Structure and components of hardware and software systems computer organization and some operating systems. Last taught: Winter 2017 CS 10: The Beauty and Joy of Computing An introduction to the beauty and joy of computing. The history, social implications, great principles, and future of computing. Last taught: Spring 2016 CS 61C: Great Ideas in Computer Architecture The internal organization and operation of digital computers, including architectural design decisions and elements of computer logic design. Last taught: Summer 2016 EE 40: Introduction to Microelectronic Circuits [TA] Fundamental circuit concepts and analysis techniques in the context of digital electronic circuits. Last taught: Fall 2012 EE 128: Feedback Control [TA] Analysis and synthesis of linear feedback control systems in transform and time domains with applications to electro-mechanical systems. Last taught: Fall 2009 Research My research interests are broadly in synthetic biology and biological systems analysis. My research focus was on engineered multicellular behaviors in bacteria, particularly pattern formation: Master's Thesis Exploration of Turing Phenomena in Quenched Oscillator Systems Ph.D. Dissertation Design and Engineering of Pattern Formation in Gene Expression in Escherichia coli Research Projects Currently not doing research as I am focusing on my career as a teaching faculty member. However, I do expect to dabble in bio- and education-related projects in the future. Hover over the following images to see more details [best in non-mobile browser]. Synthetic Mutualism [2015-2016] Macroscopic organisms are composed of cells, usually from a common genetic parent, differentiated through environmentally sensitive genetic programs. At its most fundamental level, multicellularity arises when cells come together and find means to couple their internal states in such a way that the connections result in emergent behavior generally with improved fitness for a set of problems that arises from the collective of cells. Our goal is to design a system that depends on the presence of two separate populations for survival. Possible applications include the programmed death of one species in the absence of the other (i.e. bio-security) or the reduced susceptibility to invading cells or mutation. Laterial Inhibition and Contact-Dependent Inhibition [2013-2016] Lateral inhibition is a mechanism where cell-to-cell signaling induces neighboring cells to compete and diverge into sharply contrasting fates, enabling developmental processes such as segmentation or boundary formation. A synthetic lateral inhibition system for pattern formation has not yet been demonstrated. We have developed a graph theoretic approach to analyzing potentially large contact networks for the existence and stability of "fine-grained" patterns. In place of an actual contact-based system, we propose a synthetic circuit we call a "compartmental lateral inhibition" system that used diffusible molecules to demonstrate these types of patterns. Diffusion-driven Instability [2009-2015] A particularly well-studied mechanism for pattern formation is diffusion-driven instability, originally proposed by Alan Turing in 1952, where a homogeneous steady state is destabilized in the presence of diffusion. To date, there have been no experimental demonstrations of a robust, tunable system which can break symmetry and spontaneously generate predictable gene expression patterns (spatiotemporal inhomogeneities) as in the Turing mechanism. Our investigations have led to a new a class of networks that we call "quenched oscillator" systems. These systems consist of a primary feedback loop that serves as an oscillator, and a secondary feedback loop that quenches the oscillations and incorporates a diffusible molecule. Diffusion releases the quenching effect in higher spatial frequencies, thus generating patterns. Modeling of Single Flagellum Bacterial Motion [2007] Research project for the class "Control and Optimization of Distributed Systems and Partial Differential Equations" in the Spring of 2007. Worked under the graduate student Edgar Lobaton to help model and simulate bacterial motion in environments with low Reynolds number. Framed as an adjoint optimization problem over the elasticities of the spring connecting the particles that made up the model of the flagellum. Continued work on this project through the Summer of 2007. Acknowledged in the resulting paper . Publications All publications are linked below. Journal M. Tei, M.L. Perkins, J. Hsia , M. Arcak, and A.P. Arkin. Designing Spatially Distributed Gene Regulatory Networks To Elicit Contrasting Patterns . ACS Synth. Biol. , vol. 8, no. 1, p. 119-126, 2019. J. Hsia , W.J. Holtz, M.M. Maharbiz, M. Arcak, and J.D. Keasling. Modular Synthetic Inverters from Zinc Finger Proteins and Small RNAs . PLoS ONE 11(2): e0149483 , 2016. A.S. Rufino Ferreira, J. Hsia , and M. Arcak. A Compartmental Lateral Inhibition System to Generate Contrasting Patterns . Life Sciences Letters, IEEE , vol. 1, no. 1, p. 7-10, 2015. J. Hsia , W.J. Holtz, D.C. Huang, M. Arcak, and M.M. Maharbiz. A Feedback Quenched Oscillator Produces Turing Patterning with One Diffuser . PLoS Comput Biol , vol. 8, no. 1, p. e1002331, 2012. Conference A.S. Rufino Ferreira, J. Hsia , M. Arcak, M.M. Maharbiz, A.P. Arkin. Pattern Formation with a Compartmental Lateral Inhibition Circuit . Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2014 . IEEE, 2014, p. 5413-5418. J. Hsia , W.J. Holtz, M.M. Maharbiz, and M. Arcak. New Architecture for Patterning Gene Expression Using Zinc Finger Proteins and Small RNAs . Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), 2012 . IEEE, 2012, p. 1633-1638. J. Hsia , W.J. Holtz, D.C. Huang, M. Arcak, and M.M. Maharbiz. A Quenched Oscillator Network for Pattern Formation in Gene Expression . American Control Conference (ACC), 2011 . IEEE, 2011, p. 2284-2289. Poster J. Hsia , W.J. Holtz, M. Arcak, and M.M. Maharbiz. " A Feedback Quenched Oscillator Produces Turing Patterning Using Hybrid Zinc Finger Protein-sRNA Inverters ." Poster Session, the First Annual Winter q-bio Meeting , February 2013. J. Hsia , W.J. Holtz, M.M. Maharbiz, and M. Arcak. " A New Architecture for Patterning Gene Expression Using Zinc Finger Proteins and Small RNAs ." Poster Session, 2012 UC Systemwide Bioengineering Symposium , June 2012. J. Hsia , W.J. Holtz, D.C. Huang, M. Arcak, and M.M. Maharbiz. " A Feedback Quenched Oscillator Produces Turing Patterning with One Diffuser ." Poster Session, SB5.0: the Fifth International Meeting on Synthetic Biology , June 2011. Things I Do For Fun Faculty are people, too! Icons made by Freepik , monkik , and catkuro from www.flaticon.com and licensed by CC 3.0 BY . Ultimate Chasing some plastic with my team. Running Fitness and exploration - what more do you need? Hiking The PacNW is beautiful! Enjoying the outdoors. Puzzles Mostly logic puzzles, but jigsaw is fun, too. Board Games I've got a sizeable collection. Singing I've done choir and a cappella. Badminton I'm basically retired, but I used to play a LOT. Office CSE 438 ( map ) Email jhsia AT cs.uw.edu Snail Mail Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering University of Washington 185 E Stevens Way NE AC101 Paul G. Allen Center, Box 352350 Seattle, WA 98195-2350 Copyright All rights reserved | This template is made with by Colorlib 
