 Jennifer Mankoff Make4all Skip to content Make4all Jennifer Mankoff | University of Washington Menu Research Projects Teaching News People Lab Values Working In Our Group Jennifer Mankoff Research | Students | Teaching | Bio | CV | Advice | Fun | Contact Research My work focuses on assistive technologies for access, health and wellness, and takes a multifaceted approach that includes machine learning, 3D printing, and tool building. At a high level, my goal is to tackle the technicalchallenges necessaryfor everyday individuals and communities to solve real-world problems ( see all the Make4all projects ). Some of my most recent projects: Your Portfolio Archive currently has no entries. You can start creating them on your dashboard. Students Current PhD students: Yasaman Sefidgar; Megan Hofmann (co-advised with Scott Hudson); Mark Baldwin (co-advised with Gillian Hayes) Yasaman Sefigar Venkatesh Potluri Orson (Xuhai) Xu Megan Hofmann Former PhD Students: Nikola Banovic (co-advised with Anind Dey); Christian Koehler; Sunyoung Kim ; Scott Carter ; Tara Matthews ; Julia Schwarz ; Tawanna Dillahunt ; Amy Hurst ; and Kirstin Early . Amy Hurst (co-advised with Scott Hudson) Kirstin Early (co-advised with Steven E. Feinberg) Nikola Banovic (PhD, co-advised with Anind Dey) Hongbo Ni (Visitor) Tawanna Dillahunt I love to work with undergraduate and masters students and have mentored more than I can count. My mentorship always tries to include career advice as well as project advice, whether students are going on to research or not. Many undergraduate students I advised have gone on to careers in research, however, including some current faculty (Julie Kientz, Gary Hsieh, Ruth Wylie). There are at least 50 other students who are alumni of my group who are not currently listed on this page but who all made important contributions to my work over the years. Some current mentees: Your Portfolio Archive currently has no entries. You can start creating them on your dashboard. Recent Alumni I mentored/advised: Xin Liu Aleks Tapinsh Gary Yang Nidhi Vyas Vikram Kamath Duncan McIsaac Additional alumni can be found on the Peoplepage. Teaching I love to teach, and have put significant time into curriculum development over the years. CLASSES DEVELOPED FOR AND TAUGHT AT CMU I am currently developing a new course on data centric computing, called The Data Pipeline . The course is accessible to novice programmers and includes a series of tutorials that can support independent online learning. I helped to redesign the HCI Masters course User Centered Research and Evaluation, specifically bringing a real world focus to our skills teaching around contextual inquiry I developed an online course specifically for folks who want to know enough program to be able to prototype simple interfaces (targeted at our incoming masters students). The course is available free online at CMUs Open Learning Initiative under Media Programming I developed and taught the Environment and Society course over the last five years. This was a project oriented course that took a very multifaceted look at the role of technology in solving environmental problems. I helped to develop a reading course that is required for our PhD students to ensure that they have depth in technical HCI: CS Mini Assistive Technology :I developed and taught one of the first Assistive Technology courses in the country (specifically from an HCI perspective), and I used a service learning model to do so. Original class I have helped to revamp Process and Theory over the years, a skills course intended for our first year PhD students. Bio My Bachelors of Arts was done at Oberlin College, where I was a member of two great societies FOO and ACM. I received my Ph.D. as a member of the Future Computing Environments research group in the College of Computing at Georgia Tech , Gregory Abowd and Scott Hudson were my advisors. I then spent three formative years at UC Berkeley as an Assistant Professor working with the I/O group and 12 years at CMU before joining the faculty of the University of Washington. My Academic genealogy on the Abowd side. Bio: Jennifer Mankoff is the Richard E. Ladner Professor in the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering at the University of Washington. Her research focuses on assistive technologies for equal access, health and wellness, and takes a multifaceted approach that includes machine learning, 3D printing, and tool building. Jennifer applies a human-centered approach that combines empirical methods and technical innovation. For example, she has designed 3D-printed assistive technologies for people with disabilities. Jennifer received her PhD at Georgia Tech, advised by Gregory Abowd and Scott Hudson, and her B.A. from Oberlin College.Her previous faculty positions include UC Berkeleys EECS department and Carnegie Mellons HCI Institute.Jennifer has been recognized with an Alfred P. Sloan Fellowship, IBM Faculty Fellowship and Best Paper awards from ASSETS, CHI and Mobile HCI. Some supporters of her research include Autodesk, Google Inc., the Intel Corporation, IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft Corporation and the National Science Foundation. Other Thoughts and Links internships for grads/undergrads advice about searching through literature, doing reviews, etc. Funding opportunities for grads and undergrads. Please email me if you need information or help regarding RSI (or are experiencing any computer-related pain). Support for women undergraduates in SCS, and other links about being a woman or minority in Computer Science I have chronic lyme disease. Lyme disease is the most common vector born disease in America today. I write about my experiences on A Lyme Disease Journal Best conference experience ever: The CHI2009 Stragglers Seder This slideshow requires JavaScript. Things I love (below) This slideshow requires JavaScript. Picture of my children, Kavi and Elena Artwork Ive done This slideshow requires JavaScript. My Viola My Husband My dogs: Demi, Nugget, Gryffin Contact Information Jennifer Mankoff jmankoff [at] acm.org 206 -685-3035 Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering University of Washington Paul G. Allen Center 185 Stevens Way Campus Box 352350 Seattle, WA 98195 Share this: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Like this: Like Loading... Related Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Notify me of new posts by email. Post navigation Previous Post Previous Scott Hudson Next Post Next Dan Ashbrook Subscribe via Email Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. Join 998 other subscribers Email Address Search for: Search Top Posts & Pages Home Page People Teaching Research Projects News and Updates Lab Values Welcoming new group members and celebrating the new year Twitter My Tweets Archives Archives Select Month October 2018 August 2018 April 2018 September 2017 January 2017 November 2016 September 2016 May 2016 November 2013 February 2013 January 2013 August 2012 July 2012 June 2012 April 2012 March 2012 January 2012 December 2011 November 2011 October 2011 September 2011 August 2011 July 2011 June 2011 May 2011 Proudly powered by WordPress %d bloggers like this: 
