 Noah Smith home teaching research book papers ARK contact Noah Smith Photo by Dennis Wise/UW. Interview by UW student Neil Flodin . Noah Smith designs data-driven algorithms for automated analysis of human language. His work tackles the core problems of natural language processing: parsing sentences in different languages into syntactic representations ( EGS '05 ; MSX '09 , AMBDS '16 ) and semantic representations ( DSCS '10 ; FTDCS '14 , SBDS '16 ) , as well as cross-cutting techniques for unsupervised language learning ( SE '05 ; CS '09 ) . His 2011 book, Linguistic Structure Prediction , synthesizes many statistical modeling techniques for language. Some of the methods he has contributed recently include conditional random field autoencoders ( ADS '14 ) , linguistic regularizers ( YS '14 ) , alternating directions dual decomposition (AD 3 ; MFASX '15 ), retrofitting ( FDJDHS '15 ) , recurrent neural network grammars ( DKBS '16 ) , entity language models ( JTMCS '17 ) , scaffolds ( STLZDS '18 ) , and rational recurrences ( PSTS '18 ) . Such methods advance applications for automatic translation ( ACJKLMOPSY '99 ; GS '11 ) , summarization ( LFTSS '15 ) , question answering ( WSM '07 ) , empirical work in the social sciences ( KLRSS '09 ; YCS '09 , SAGS '13 ) and humanities ( BUS '14 ) , education ( HS '10 ) , and other next-generation language technologies. Smith is Professor of Computer Science & Engineering at the University of Washington , Adjunct in Linguistics , Affiliate of the Center for Statistics and the Social Sciences , and Senior Data Science Fellow at the eScience Institute . He is also Senior Research Manager for the AllenNLP team at the Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence . Previously, he was Finmeccanica Associate Professor in the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University , completed his Ph.D. as a Hertz Foundation Fellow at Johns Hopkins University , and studied at the Universities of Maryland and Edinburgh and Western Maryland College . He is an amateur clarinetist, tanguero , swimmer, cocktail enthusiast, and serves on the staff of two felines. For more details, see his biographical blurb or academic c.v. Teaching Tutorials and Public Presentations Squashing Computational Linguistics [ video ] Invited talk at ACL , August 1, 2017 Sequence Models [ video ] Lisbon Machine Learning Summer School , July 20117 Natural Language Processing: Algorithms and Applications, Old and New WSDM winter school, January 31, 2015 Structured Sparsity in NLP EACL , April 27, 2014, with Andr Martins , Mrio Figueiredo , and Dani Yogatama NAACL , June 3, 2012, with Andr Martins and Mrio Figueiredo NLP Demystified NSF SoCS PI meeting, June 28, 2013 Probability and Structure in NLP (four-lecture version) Invited course at the University of Heidelberg, November 2014 Probability and Structure in NLP (six-lecture version) International Summer School in Language and Speech Technologies , JulyAugust 2012 IBM's T. J. Watson Research Center, May 2011, with Shay Cohen Using Text to Predict The Real World SxSW , March 13, 2011, with Philip Resnik [ Philip's slides ] Structured Prediction for NLP ICML , June 14, 2009 Courses CSE 446: Machine Learning (for undergraduates), taught autumn 2017 CSEP 517: NLP (for professional M.S. students), taught spring 2017 ; video lectures available CSE 447 (formerly 490U): NLP (for undergraduates), taught winter 2019, winter 2017 CSE 599D1: Advanced NLP (for Ph.D. students), taught spring 2016 CSE 517: NLP (for Ph.D. students), taught spring 2018 and winter 2016 At CMU , I taught courses on NLP at the undergraduate and graduate levels, including an course originally called "Language and Statistics II" and later "Structured Prediction for Language and Other Discrete Data." Once I taught the graduate course "Probabilistic Graphical Models." I regularly led advanced seminars and lab courses on NLP. In 2013, students in the lab developed open-source morphology tools for Akkadian (Assyrian) and Babylonian , Farsi , French , German , Hindi , Japanese , Russian , Slovene , and Spanish (the author of each is credited at the Github or Bitbucket site). At various times, I co-taught with William Cohen , Chris Dyer , Bob Frederking , and Alon Lavie . At JHU , I designed and taught short courses titled "Empirical Research Methods in Computer Science" (with David Smith ) and "Computational Genomics: Sequence Modeling" (with Roy Tromble ). Other teaching materials include the hands-on exercise Predicting English (with Jason Eisner ; read the paper ), and brief tutorials on hidden Markov models and log-linear models . Research My academic group is Noah's ARK ; we are part of the larger UW NLP fleet. UW NLP is a great place to do NLP research! If you rely on automatic "metrics-based" rankings sites to learn where NLP research is happening, you might miss this fact. In particular, the maintainers of CS rankings dot org have taken it on themselves to categorize NLP researchers as academics or not. As a result, several of my colleagues and I have been excluded from the list of UW faculty because we have external, non-academic affiliations. (There are, of course, many shades of shared affiliation, and the site draws an arbitrary line across a complicated space, without a clear explanation or a careful effort to apply the rule evenly.) There's a lot to be said about this issue (perhaps I'll write something about it soon), but please note that the UW NLP group is thriving and, in my opinion, one of the best places in the world to be an NLP researcher. In 2011 I published a book , Linguistic Structure Prediction . I write papers (organized by date , by topic , or by Google ). If you would like to help support my work, please consider doing so through Benefunder . If you have a technical question about my research, it's fine to email me and my coauthors. If you would like to work with me, please read this before contacting me . Some research activities and events that I am or have been involved in: From 201215 and 2018present, I served as the secretary-treasurer of SIGDAT , which brings you the annual EMNLP conference. I co-organized the Ninth Annual Conference on New Directions in Analyzing Text as Data , an interdisciplinary meeting held at UW, September 212, 2018 (with Emily Gade and John Wilkerson ) I was a program co-chair for ACL 2016, with Katrin Erk . I co-organized the Language Technologies and Computational Social Science , a workshop at ACL 2014 (with Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil , Jacob Eisenstein , and Kathy McKeown ) and the NLP Unshared Task in PoliIinformatics , a research competition at the workshop (with Claire Cardie , Anne Washington , and John Wilkerson ) I co-organized the Twenty Years of Bitext workshop at EMNLP 2013 (with Chris Dyer and Phil Blunson ) Miscellany remembering my Dad, Wayne advice for undergrads and about choosing a grad school using the Mathematics Genealogy Project , I learned that my students and I are "descended" from Copernicus , Leibniz , two Bernoullis , Euler , Lagrange , Fourier , Poisson , Dirichlet , Gauss , Ohm , Lipschitz , Halle , and Jakobson . My Ph.D. advisor was Eisner . my great-uncle Alex Steinweiss invented record album cover art, and another great-uncle Barney Stein was the photographer of the Brooklyn Dodgers 
