 Stephen G. Kobourov Professor Department of Computer Science University of Arizona Curriculum Vitae Research Papers Research Projects The HDC Lab The GAMA Group Teaching Students Pictures Tucson Links Grad School Info In 2019 am co-chairing the The 21st ACM-SIAM Meeting on Algorithm Engineering and Experiments ( ALENEX ) and serve on the PC of the 35th Symposium on Computational Geometry ( SoCG ) and the 12th IEEE Pacific Visualization Symposium ( PacificVis ). In 2018 I served on the PC of the 23rd IEEE Information Visualization Symposium ( INFOVIS ), the 20th IEEE Eurographics Conference on Visualization ( EUROVIS ), the 11th IEEE Pacific Visualization Symposium ( PacificVis ), and the IEEE Conference on Software Visualization ( VISSOFT ). I organized the 2018 University of Arizona Science Lecture Series titled "Humans, Data and Machines" and gave the first talk about " Problem Solving with Algorithms ." I am a co-PI of the UA-TRIPODS (Transdisciplinary Research in Principles of Data Science) NSF Center, one of 12 including MIT, Columbia, and UC Berkeley. Our research groups are studying the theory of large scale networks, data visualization and interpretation, natural language processing, and Bayesian methods for big data. In 2015-16 I worked at Charles University in Prague as a Distinguished Fulbright Chair . In 2011-12 I worked in Germany as a Humboldt Fellow and in 2006-07 I was in Botswana as a Fulbright Scholar . We've implemented several algorithms for semantic word clouds ; see some examples from the gallery . The algorithms that generate our maps of Bookland, TVLand, and MusicLand are now available and usable at GMap . Our paper about Analyzing the Language of Food on Social Media appeared at the 2014 IEEE Big Data Conference; see the data with our visualizations tools . "Bending Reality: Where arc and science meet" : an exhibition I co-organized as a part of the Dagstuhl Workshop on Drawing Graphs and Maps with Curves . Maps of Computer Science, or MOCS , generates topic maps of the field, heatmaps of various conferences (e.g., STOC ), journals over time (e.g., JACM first decade vs last decade ), as well as researchers and groups. Google Scholar and DBLP list most of my papers. Contact Information Department of Computer Science University of Arizona 1040 E 4th Street Tucson, AZ 85721-0077 Office: Gould-Simpson 715 Office Hours: Monday, Wednesday 10:45-11:30am [ Home | Projects | Papers | Teaching | CV | U of A | U of A CS ] 
