 Richard T. Snodgrass Home Awards Curriculum Vit Funding Initiatives Professional Activities Publications Projects Ergalics Automated Causal Analysis (AMELIE) ANTARES Concrete Complexity Data Cognition Field Guide Science of Databases DBMS Micro-Specialization TAU Dragoon Bench BerkeleyDB DOM PSM XQuery XSchema Zaman TimeCenter SQL3 TSQL2 Links ACM SIGMOD ACM Transactions on Database Systems Professor and Galileo Circle Fellow Department of Computer Science College of Science 711 Gould Simpson University of Arizona P.O. Box 210077 Tucson , AZ 85721-0077 Phone: (520) 621-6370 FAX: (520) 621-4246 Email: rts@cs.arizona.edu Biography Rick is a Professor of Computer Science at the University of Arizona , joining in 1989. He has written or edited six books as well as many journal and conference papers (see his DBLP entry , his ACM author page , and a complete list of his publications , including electronic versions of almost all papers). He is an ACM Fellow . Rick is a member of the Editorial Board of ACM Ubiquity . He has chaired the ACM Publications Board and the ACM History Committee and has served on ACM Council . He was Editor-in-Chief of the ACM Transactions on Database Systems from 2001 to 2007 and has served previously as Associate Editor of the International Journal on Very Large Databases and the IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering . He chaired the Americas program committee for the 2001 VLDB Conference and the program committees for the 1994 SIGMOD Conference and the 1993 International Workshop on an Infrastructure for Temporal Databases. In addition, he has served as a vice-chair or member of many program committees . Rick chaired the ACM SIGMOD Special Interest Group on Management of Data from 1997 to 2001. He received the 2004 Outstanding Contribution to ACM Award and the 2002 ACM SIGMOD Outstanding Contributions Award . He has been involved in a number of initiatives . Rick chaired the TSQL2 Language Design Committee and initiated the SQL/Temporal part of the SQL3 draft standard. Concepts and constructs from SQL/Temporal, including valid time and transaction time , have been included in the SQL standard and have been implemented in the IBM DB2 10 , MarkLogic Server , Oracle 9i, 10g., and 11g , SAP HANA , and Teradata Database 13.10 and 14 DBMSes. Other products and design patterns have also included temporal support based in part on these ideas. He holds a B.A. degree in Physics from Carleton College and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science from Carnegie Mellon University . Rick co-directs TimeCenter , an international center for the support of temporal database applications on traditional and emerging DBMS technologies, as well as the related science of databases and TAU projects. His research interests include ergalics (the science of computing), temporal databases, query language design, query optimization and evaluation, storage structures, and database design. Rick's avocational interests include playing classical guitar, scuba diving, and flying, though not simultaneously! More details may be found on his curriculum vitae and on wikipedia . Projects The Science of Databases Understanding database management system software as a general class of computational artifacts TAU Project An umbrella of projects, all with goal of providing to users, through sophisticated user languages and APIs, facilities to manage time-oriented data. Encompasses database implementations (specifically, BerkeleyDB , PSM , and Zaman ), temporal XML (specifically, XSchema , XQuery , DOM , and Bench ), and forensic analysis of database tampering (the Dragoon project). TimeCenter An international center for the support of temporal database applications Join the premier professional organization for database researchers and practitioners Webmaster: Richard Snodgrass 
