 Beichuan Zhang Associate Professor Computer Science Department The University of Arizona Tucson, AZ 85721 Office: Gould-Simpson 723 Voice: 520-621-4817 Fax: 520-621-4246 Email: Dr. Zhang joined the Computer Science Department at the University of Arizona in 2005. He received PhD from UCLA in 2003, and BS from Peking University, China in 1995. Before coming to Arizona, he spent two years as a postdoc at USC/ISI-East and UCLA. His research area is computer networks in general. He has been working on Internet routing architectures and protocols, green networks, routing security, and Internet content distribution. He is the receipient of the Applied Networking Research Prize by ISOC and IRTF in 2011, and the Best Paper Award at ICDCS in 2005. The Network Research Lab is looking for talented and motivated people to work with us on cutting-edge research. To apply for a postdoctoral research fellow position, please email your CV, research statement and contact information of 3 references to Dr. Zhang. To apply for a graduate research assistantship or for an undergraduate research assistantship, please email your resume to Dr. Zhang. We also welcome International Exchange Scholars (J-1 visa holders). Current Research Named Data Networking Green Net Routing Security Past Research eFIT Routing Dynamics AS topology Content Distribution Publications Teaching CSc630 Advanced Topics in Internet Research CSc525 Principles of Computer Networking CSc425 Computer Networks Personal I used to play soccer a lot with my soccer buddies in Los Angeles, Bay Area, Virginia, and Arizona. From 1996 to 2007, I competed in the Grand Tournament of North American Chinese Soccer League on every Labor Day weekend for 11 years, mostly with team Silicon Valley Tigers. It was a great time. After moving to Tucson, I played with team Red Army in the Tucson Metro Soccer League for 4 years. We reached division finals 3 times and won the title of 2008-09 season. The trophy is displayed in the Miss Saigon restaurant at Speedway and Campbell, as one of my teammates works there. Tucson is great for soccer: many fields and players for pickup games, several leagues for formal games, and you can play all year round. However, after a couple of injuries in the last season, I decided that it was enough for my knees and ankles. So I quit soccer in 2010 :-( Nowadays I play badminton twice a week with the Tucson Badminton Club and the UA Badminton Club . Except being indoors, badminton is as much fun as soccer, in different ways though. I've been learning it from online turorials , youtube videos , and fellow players. My current goal is to get out of the group stage in local tournaments. 
