 Laura Balzano Laura Balzano Home Bio Publications Projects Matrix Completion Sparsity and Non-Linearity Subspace Clustering Subspace Tracking Fault and Calibration Active Learning Applications Courses SPADA lab Code News Contact Laura Home I am an Assistant Professor in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. I lead the Signal Processing Algorithm Design and Analysis (SPADA) lab. You can find my CV here , updated November 2018. My research projects are in statistical signal processing, matrix factorization, and optimization, particularly dealing with large and messy data. I have worked in the areas of online algorithms, non-convex formulations for matrix factorization, compressed sensing and matrix completion, network inference, and sensor networks. My interests are theoretical, however, my favorite mathematical problems are motivated by fascinating and important engineering problems. Recent News Army Young Investigator I am very excited that my project Mathematics for Learning Nonlinear Generalizations of Subspace Models in High Dimensions has won the Army Young Investigator award! Subspace models are widely used due to simplicity and ease of analysis. However, while these linear models are very powerful in many high-dimensional data contexts, they also often miss out on important nonlinearities in real data. This project aims to extend recent advances in signal processing to the single-index model and the nonlinear variety model. Read the departments announcement here . Postdoc Opportunity at the University of Michigan to begin in spring 2019. Please email Laura Balzano < girasole@umich.edu > with the subject Joining the Balzano lab postdoc 2019 if you are interested. We are seeking a postdoc who is interested in applying machine learning techniques to real-time dynamic data analysis. While machine learning has advanced significantly over the last decade, its application to dynamic time-varying data is still in its infancy. This project will focus on three ML areas: online learning, stochastic gradient methods, and streaming PCA. We will work on theory to understand how the standard approaches behave when the data are time-varying, develop appropriate models for time-varying data, and develop novel approaches along with convergence theory. Our main applications focus will be power systems engineering and computer vision. In power systems, we will develop methodologies to infer the real-time behavior of aggregations of distributed energy resources from hierarchical, heterogeneous, and incomplete measurements of power system quantities. In computer vision, we will develop real-time algorithms for object tracking and activity recognition in video. Optimally Weighted PCA for High-dimensional Heteroscedastic Data Today I had the opportunity to speak about very recent results by my student David Hong (joint work also with Jeff Fessler) in analyzing asymptotic recovery guarantees for weighted PCA for high-dimensional heteroscedastic data. In the paper we recently posted online , we have asymptotic analysis (as both the number of samples and dimension of the problem grow to infinity, but converge to a fixed constant) of the recovery for weighted PCA components, amplitudes, and scores. Those recovery expressions allow us to find weights that give optimal recovery, and the weights turn out to be a very simple expression involving only the noise variance and the PCA amplitudes. To learn more, watch my talk here, and let us know if you have any questions! Copyright Copyright Notice : This material is presented to ensure timely dissemination of scholarly and technical work. Copyright and all rights therein are retained by authors or by other copyright holders. All persons copying this information are expected to adhere to the terms and constraints invoked by each author's copyright. In most cases, these works may not be reposted without the explicit permission of the copyright holder. Return to top of page Copyright 2019 Streamline Theme on Genesis Framework WordPress Log in 
