 Fessler, Jeffrey A.: UM EECS Web page. Jeffrey A. Fessler is the William L. Root Collegiate Professor of EECS. He is a Professor in the ECE Division of the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department of the College of Engineering, located within the scenic North Campus of The University of Michigan in the terrific town of Ann Arbor , Michigan . He is also affiliated with the Biomedical Engineering Department and with the Division of Nuclear Medicine within the Department of Radiology. The University of Michigan has been rated as the top US public university and is a great place to work. My research interests include medical imaging, tomography, nonparametric estimation, and inverse problems, with current and past projects in X-ray CT, MRI, PET, SPECT, radiation therapy, and image registration. I am interested both in developing algorithms for these problems, as well as analyzing and predicting the properties of these algorithms. My group works on a wide variety of imaging projects, both for medical imaging and some non-medical imaging problems. For a snapshot of our current research, see recent preprints under the "publication" link below. Publications: reprints and preprints Software: Michigan image reconstruction toolbox (MIRT) (for Matlab/Octave). Includes tomography, NUFFT, MRI. Open source and free! Software: ASPIRE image reconstruction software (Free!) Software: TERSE: transmission and emission reconstruction environment for SPECT Software: Vspline (vector spline) smoothing package Results illustrating iterative image reconstruction (picture gallery). Opinions about image reconstruction (outdated) Projects "currently" in progress Prospective interns, students, post-docs, visitors please read this! Group members / dissertations Collaborators Course information EE Curr. Comm. (EECS access only) Biographical information Bibliographies for imaging url public Junk under construction IEEE Transactions on Computational Imaging Machine Learning and AI in imaging: ISBI 2018 Special Session on Smart Imaging Systems 2018 Special issue of IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging: Machine Learning for Image Reconstruction 2018 Special session on Machine Learning for Computational Imaging at MLSP Imaging Summit 2017: Medical imaging in the era of AI Research in my group has been supported in part by generous GPU donations from NVIDIA , research support from GE Healthcare , Intel Corporation , and KLA-Tencor , as well as state and federal sources. Jeff Fessler 734-763-1434 4431 EECS Bldg., 1301 Beal Ave. University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2122 
