 Optoelectronic Components and Materials Group Optoelectronic Components and Materials Group Prof. Stephen Forrest Home Overview Research People Facilities Contact High Efficiency Semi-transparent Organic Photovoltaic Cells A semi-transparent non-fullerene acceptor organic photovoltaic cell, which can achieve 7% power conversion efficiency with an average transmittance of 45%. You can read about this and other projects on our research page. Accelerated Aging of Organic Photovoltaic Devices A High-intensity LED aging system capable of producing >65 suns equivalent intensity with active water cooling that is capable of testing over a dozen photovoltaic devices in parallel. You can read about this and other projects on our research page. Efficient, Nonintrusive Outcoupling in Organic Light Emitting Devices Using Embedded Microlens Arrays A computer generated schematic depicting an OLED device utilizing a sub-electrode microlens array is shown on the left. A top down image of a fabricated structure is shown to the right demonstrating clarity and transparency. You can read about this and other projects on our research page. Ultra-thin, Light-weight and Flexible OLED with Enhanced Outcoupling A rolled up array of OLED devices fabricated on a flexible parylene substrate that also demonstrates optical outcoupling capabilities. You can read about this and other projects on our research page. Hemispherical Photodiode Imager Arrays A non-planar photodiode imager array demonstrating un-altered pixel resolution upon transfer from a developable 2D surface to a non-developable 3D hemisphere. You can read about this and other projects on our research page. Repeated Non-Destructive Epitaxial Lift-Off (ND-ELO) of III-V thin film grown by MBE and effects on substrate reuse A lifted off 4" diameter epitaxial layer of solar cell active area GaAs bonded to a 25 m Kapton film. You can read about this and other projects on our research page. Deep blue Phosphorescent Organic Light Emitting Diode (PHOLED) A deep blue phosphorescent organic light-emitting diode (PHOLED) based on iridium (III) phosphor. This work is highlighted on IEEE Spectrum. You can read about this and other projects on our research page. News & Recent Events Dejiu Fan, Byungjun Lee and Caleb Coburn demonstrate the topological transformation of an optoelectronic circuit from a plane to a hemisphere without changing the relative spacing of circuit elements. This unique process opens the door to many new applications in conformable and flexible optoelectronic applications. Click for a higher resolution image! Congratulations to Yue Qu for winning the SID Metropolitan Detroit Chapter Academic Award! Links | Opportunities Copyright (c) 2014 Optoelectronic Components and Materials Group All rights reserved. Design by Free CSS Templates . 
