 Jessy Grizzle | Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) @ Michigan Jessy Grizzle Elmer G. Gilbert Distinguished University Professor Jerry W. and Carol L. Levin Professor of Engineering Jessy Grizzle Elmer G. Gilbert Distinguished University Professor Jerry W. and Carol L. Levin Professor of Engineering Home Projects Publications Publications Home Biped Robots Automotive Control Nonlinear Control Theory Semiconductor Manufacturing Models Coded in MATLAB Biped Control Book Google Scholar IEEE Xplore Robot Videos Bipedal Homepage RABBIT MABEL Biped Control Book YouTube Channel ROBEA Home Page Publicity Photos PhDs and Post Docs Applying for an RA? Links Jessy W. Grizzle Elmer G. Gilbert Distinguished University Professor Jerry W. and Carol L. Levin Professor of Engineering Director of Robotics University of Michigan EECS Department Electrical & Computer Engineering 1301 Beal Ave. (3215 EECS Bldg.) Ann Arbor, MI 48109 Tel: (734) 763-3598 Fax: (734) 763-8041 Email: Jessy W. Grizzle is a (full) Professor in the Control Systems Laboratory of the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department within the College of Engineering at The University of Michigan in Ann Arbor , Michigan . He is the Director of Michigan Robotics and a member of the ECE Systems Laboratory and the Robotics and Computer Vision Area . He has a courtesy appointment in Mechancial Engineering . The activity at Michigan in control systems is very interdisciplinary and moves easily across traditional departmental boundaries. We maintain a very active College of Engineering Control Seminar Series . Additional EECS Control Lab information is available here. For more fun stuff, see the EECS YouTube Home Page . Research Homepage Curriculum Vitae and IEEE-Style BIO Grizzle`s Pubs at Google Scholar YouTube Channel (Robot Videos). Maps of Campus, and Driving Directions. Directions to the Bipedal Robot Laboratory WebCam of the Robotics Institute: $75M, 143,000 sq. ft (13,285 m^2) Fly Through of the Robotics Institute: Our GitHub site Open-source Software for Estimation and Control Our newest robot , Cassie (Go) Blue ! MARLO and MABEL videos are available on YouTube: Michigan Robotics: Dynamic Legged Locomotion Channel . Robots everywhere in our College of Engineering Michigan Robotics Rocks! This is Michigan Engineering 2012 . Robots are featured widely in UofM media: Michigan Halftime Video Victors for Michigan Campaign video short (MABEL is at 0:16) and long version (MABEL is at 2:01). MABEL goes to the Field Museum in Chicago. Book: Feedback Control of Dynamic Bipedal Robot Locomotion co-authored with Eric R. Westervelt, Christine Chevallereau, Jun-Ho Choi, and Benjamin Morris, published by Taylor & Francis in June, 2007, is available for free download . It treats virtual constraints and hybrid zero dynamics for the creation of asymptotically stable periodic motions in hybrid systems. I would also suggest the following papers that significantly extend these methods: Machine Learning , Robust Optimization , and Bilinear Matrix Inequalities (BMI) , and the excellent 2018 HZD Review paper by Ames and Poulakakis , as well as these survey works: Book Chapter In: Goswami A., Vadakkepat P. (eds) Humanoid Robotics: A Reference. Springer, Dordrecht and 2015 Survey on HZD in Automatica . My primary research area used to be the theory of nonlinear control systems. While I still have strong interest in this subject and feel a sense of community with that body of researchers, my research activities have significantly broadened over time. My work now covers the control of bipedal robots and correct-by-construction control methods for Adavanced Driver Assist Systems. From 1986 to 2010, I worked on various apsects of modeling and control of automotive powertrain systems and control of HEVs. From 1991-2001, I applied systems and control techniques to improve the operation of plasma-based microelectronics manufacturing equipment. EECS College of Engineering University of Michigan The Regents of the University of Michigan 
