 The Kanicki Laboratory - Displays and Detectors College of Engineering | Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science | ECE Division Contact Information: The Kanicki Laboratory 2307A EECS Bldg 1301 Beal Ave. Ann Arbor, MI, 48109-2122 Tel: (734) 936-0964 (Office) Tel: (734) 936-0972 (Student office) Tel: (734) 615-6363 (The Kanicki Lab) Fax: (734) 615-2843 Email: kanicki@eecs.umich.edu Shipping Info: Click Here This is the homepage of Professor Jerzy Kanickis Displays and Detectors laboratory in the EECS department at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. We are part of the Solid-State Electronics Laboratory http://www.mnf.umich.edu/ within ECE division of the EECS department. This Inorganic and Organic Thin-Film Devices and Circuits research group was established when Dr. Jerzy Kanicki joined the University of Michigan in the fall of 1994 after working for twelve years at the IBM Research Division T.J. Watson Research Center http://www.watson.ibm.com/index.shtml , Yorktown Heights, New York. During the first five years this group, in collaboration with the flat panel industries, was doing leading work on the hydrogenated amorphous silicon (a-Si:H) thin-film transistor (TFT) active-matrix liquid crystal displays (AM-LCDs). Both the transmissive and reflective flat panel displays were investigated. Between 2000 and 2006, this group was doing fundamental and applied research on organic and molecular electronics including organic light-emitting devices (OLEDs) and organic field-effect transistors (OFETs). Solution-processed organic materials are only being considered for these devices. The OLED application to active-matrix light-emitting displays (AM-OLEDs) was actively investigated leading to demonstration of several small engineering prototypes. Since 2006, in collaboration with the multi-national industries, this group is developing new knowledge in the metal oxide semiconductor devices and circuits for flat panel displays, and imaging hemispherical detection systems. Today this group still continues to be interested in improving inorganic and organic, and active-matrix arrays technology (including electrical properties and stability, low temperature processing, and new device and circuit structures) for flat panel displays and detectors on flexible plastic substrates. Electronic circuits on flexible substrates are also of interest to this group. In summary, today this group is focusing on interdisciplinary research leading to development of the emerging technologies outside the paradigm of established liquid crystal display and solid-state imager technologies. Fields of Study: Short Channel Amorphous IGZO TFT Arrays: Electrical Properties, Stability, and Density-of-States More... Inverted Organic Photodetectors with DMD Top Illumination Transparent Anode More... Electrochromic Device with Prussian Blue and HPC-based Electrolyte More... Bio-inspired Materials for Electrochemical Devices More... Wafer-scale CMOS Active Pixel Sensor X-ray Detector for Digital Breast Tomosynthesis More... Amorphous InSnZnO Thin-Film Transistor Voltage-Mode Active Pixel Sensor Circuits for X-Ray Imagers More... High Mobility dc Sputtered Amorphous In-Sn-Zn-O Thin-Film Transistors More... Complete 3-D Image Simulation Framework for DBT Optimization More... Composition Analysis of Amorphous IGZO TFT under Positive Bias Temperature Stress More... Time of Flight SIMS Analysis of a-IGZO Thin Film Transistors Subjected to Bias Temperature Stress Fabricated on Different Glass Substrates and on Silicon More... Oxygen Flow Effects on Electrical Properties, Stability, and Density of States of Amorphous In-Ga-Zn-O Thin-Film Transistors More... Dynamic Response of Amorphous In-Ga-Zn-O Thin-Film Transistors for 8K4K Ultra-High Definition Active-Matrix Liquid Crystal Displays More... Density of States of Amorphous In-Ga-Zn-O More... AC Bias-Temperature Stress Stability of a-InGaZnO Thin-Film Transistors More... Copyright 2016 The Kanicki Laboratory | Site design: Academic Web Pages 
