 Mark Kushner Group - University of Michigan Computational Plasma Science and Engineering Group Prof. Mark J. Kushner Home Projects Publications Theses Presentations Data/Reactions People Research Support Classes Short Courses Introduction to Plasmas Directions Help Introduction The Computational Plasma Science and Engineering Group ( CPSEG ) in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering is housed in the EECS Building on the campus of the University of Michigan and is directed by Prof. Mark J. Kushner . Prof. Kushner is also Director of MIPSE (Michigan Institute for Plasma Science and Engineering) and of the DOE Plasma Science Center . View a short movie - introduction to the research done in our group The CPSEG develops computer simulations of low temperature plasmas and technologically important devices which use low temperature plasmas. These simulations are used as both a method of investigating the basic physical processes which occur in low temperature plasmas, and as Computer Aided Design ( CAD ) tools for the design of plasma equipment. Some of the applications for which the CPSEG has recently developed simulations and CAD tools are: Plasma etching and deposition for fabrication of microelectronics and flat panel displays Plasma etch and deposition surface kinetics and profile models Lasers Pulse power switches Plasma remediation of toxic gases Lighting sources Plasma display panels Nanocrystal generation for fabrication of nanophase materials "Dusty Plasmas" (nucleation, growth and transport of particles in plasmas) Contamination Free Manufacturing The current emphasis of the CPSEG is development of 2- and 3-dimensional computer models for plasma materials processing, and plasma remediation of toxic gases. The CPSEG is well known in the microelectronics fabrication industry for its innovative simulations and visualizations of plasma processing reactors, and for its close working relationships with the industry and with national laboratories. Many of the computer models and CAD tools developed by the CPSEG are available for licensing and transfer to industry. In particular the Hybrid Plasma Equipment Model ( HPEM ) is now in use by semiconductor equipment suppliers and chip manufacturers. Overviews, conference presentations, theses and articles from the CPSEG are available for viewing and downloading. CPSEG Overview Hybrid Plasma Equipment Model (HPEM) Projects Publications Recent Theses Recent Presentations Electron Impact and Heavy Particle Databases For more information on the availability of graduating students who are experts in computer simulation, as well as CAD tools and computer models for low temperature plasmas, contact Prof. Mark J. Kushner. For classes being taught by Prof. Kushner, see Classes . Video Materials Meet the Faculty Video: Mark J. Kushner Video produced by Prof. Alec Thomas for the Michigan Institute for Plasma Science and Engineering: Why You Should Care About Plasmas! Plenary talk at the LNF Annual Symposium, December 1, 2016: The Role of Plasma Modeling in the Innovation Cycle for Nano-fabrication 16 December 2016 ODP Webmaster 
