 UM LIST - University of Michigan Laboratory of Intelligent System Technology Home About LIST Team Prof. Lynch Research Projects Resiliency of Rail Bridges Publications Contact SMART, CYBER-ENABLED, DATA-DRIVEN Making Urban Systems Resilient through Intelligence The Laboratory for Intelligent Systems Technology (LIST) is converting traditional civil infrastructure into intelligent and reactive systems through the integration of sensing, computing and actuation technologies. Advancing Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) in the Urban Context The convergence of embedded sensing, actuation, computing and wireless communications has resulted in the emergence of cyber-physical systems (CPS) that are revolutionizing our ability to monitor and control physcial systems. In the context of the urban domain, CPS has the potential to transform the performance and resiliency of physical infrastructure, social networks and natural systems of which are cities are comprised. LIST is at the forefront developing novel CPS technologies and system architectures for this application space. The research portfolio spans from the development of novel sensing technologies for sensing built and natural environments to data analytic platforms that transfor data and information into actionable information for decision makers. Novel Sensing Technologies New sensing technologies are vital to the acquisition of quantitative data related to infrastructure performance, environmental factors, and how people interact with infrastructure. Our research spans from self-sensing multifunctional materials to the creation of novel wireless sensors with embedded computational intelligence. Cloud-based Data Management The proliferation of sensors in the built environment has called attention to the need for scalable data management solutions that can store and curate massive amounts of data. Our team is developing scalable and cloud-based data management solutions that allow the value of data to be unlocked for critical decision making. Analytics and Controls Data is only valuable if it is used to make decisions. Our team is at the forefront of developing analytical tools that extract actionable information from data. Our work extends the reach of real-time data-driven analytics for the control and reconfiguration of urban systems leading to the enhancement of urban resiliency. Field Validation Our research is tested in operational systems including in bridges, buildings, roads, wind turbines and naval ships. We also deploy our sensors in cities for urban sensing applications. Experimental validation in these real-world systems provides opportunities to accelerate technology transfer and to gain direct feedback from stakeholders. Looking to Get Involved? LIST has a long history of engaging students, staff and faculty in research and welcomes inquiries aimed at joining or collaborating with our team. If you are an undergraduate student looking for a research experience, we routinely support the Summer Research Opportunity Program (SROP) administered by Rackham Graduate Schoool and the Summer Undergraduate Research in Engineering (SURE) administered by the College of Engineering at the University of Engineering. The SROP program is for domestic undergraduate students from underrepresented groups in engineering and is designed to prepare undergraduate students for advanced studies in a Ph.D. program at the University of Michigan. SURE is designed to offer summer research experiences to University of Michigan undergraduate students. Current University of Michigan graduate students interested in independent study projects or graduate research assistantships should contact Prof. Jerome Lynch about joining the LIST team. If you are a prospective graduate student interested in joining the Laboratory of Intelligent Systems Technology, you are encourage to apply. We draw our team members largely from applicants to the M.S. and Ph.D. programs in Intelligent Systems Engineering in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering. Learn more Contact Us (734) 615-5290 jerlynch@umich.edu 2060 G. G. Brown Building, 2350 Hayward Street, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2125, USA Follow Us Disclaimer Any opinions, findings and conclusions or recommendations expressed on this website are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the University of Michigan or any of the funding agencies supporting the work presented on the site. Questions regarding the website can be directed to: Prof. Jerome P. Lynch ( jerlynch@umich.edu ) Home | About | Research Projects | Publications | Contact Copyright 2017, Jerome P. Lynch, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI. 
