 PetersonLab PetersonLab Search this site Home Research Projects Publications Group Members Teaching News Home Research Projects Publications Group Members Teaching Asst. Prof. Becky (R. L.) Peterson EECS Department University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2122 Email Professor Peterson News 2/1/19 Congratulations to graduate student Ming-Hsun Lee on publication of his paper: " Interfacial reactions of titanium/gold ohmic contacts with Sn-doped -Ga 2 O 3 ," in APL Materials ! 1/23/19 Congratulations to PhD candidate Zumrad Kabilova on publication of her paper: " Observation of impurity band conduction and variable range hopping in heavily doped (010) -Ga 2 O 3 ," in Semiconductor Science and Technology ! 12/11/18 C ongratulations to PhD candidate Chris Allemang for winning the 1st prize in the 2018 LNF Users Symposium for his poster titled " Electrical Performance of Annealed Zinc-tin-oxide Thin-film Transistors Deposited by Atomic Layer Deposition ". Well done, Chris! 11/30/18 Congratulations to PhD student Youngbae Son on publication of his paper: " Exploiting In Situ Redox and Diffusion of Molybdenum to Enable ThinFilm Circuitry for LowCost Wireless Energy Harvesting " in Advanced Functional Materials and accompanying frontispiece image . 8/28/18 Welcome to Jaesung Jo, a new PhD student in ECE. Mr. Jo comes to Michigan from University of Seoul, Korea. Welcome, Jaesung! 8/15/18 Hannah Masten, a PhD student in PetersonLab, presents on "Ga 2 O 3 MOSCAPs with low D it using yttrium-scandium oxide high- k dielectric," at the 3rd US Workshop on Gallium Oxide , held in Columbus, Ohio. Well done, Hannah! 8/1/18 Prof. Peterson, along with colleagues Profs. Elaheh Ahmadi, Emmanouil (Manos) Kioupakis, Cagliyan Kurdak, Jamie Phillips, and Steve Yalisove, receive a $250,000 Research Accelerator award from the University of Michigan's College of Engineering to develop an innovative, environmentally friendly manufacturing method for the deposition of crystalline gallium oxide films for use in high-power devices. Many thanks to the College of Engineering for this support! 6/27/18 PhD student Hannah Masten presents on "Ternary Alloy Rare Earth Scandate as Dielectric for - Ga 2 O 3 MOS Structures" at the 60th Electronic Materials Conference held at University of California - Santa Barbara. Congratulations, Hannah! 6/8/18 PetersonLab expands by moving all of our test and measurement equipment into a new lab. Many thanks to ECE and the College of Engineering for the provision of this much-needed space! 5/31/18 Prof. Peterson gives an invited talk on " 'Electronics on Anything' Using Wide Bandgap Amorphous Oxide Semiconductors " at Compound Semiconductor Week 2018, held at MIT in Cambridge, Massachussets. 5/9/18 Belated congratulations to PhD student Zumrad Kabilova for winning a poster award at the U-M Engineering Graduate Symposium in November 2017. Her poster won 5th Place in the Optics, Photonics, and Solid-State Devices Division. Well done, Zumrad! 5/7/18 UM undergraduate Shantam Ravan joins PetersonLab for his Summer Undergraduate Research in Engineering project. Welcome, Shantam! 5/1/18 A warm welcome to Dr. Alana Hyland, who is joins the group as a Post-Doctoral Research Fellow! Dr. Hyland received her PhD from the University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New Zealand. 3/13/18 Prof. Peterson gives an invited talk at the German Physics Society Annual Meeting (Deutschen Physikalischen Gesselschaft e.V. 2018) focused session on Oxide Semiconductors for Novel Devices in Berlin, Germany. Many thanks to Dr. Holger von Wenckstern, Dr. Oliver Bierwagen, Dr. Karsten Fleischer, and Prof. Dr. Holger Eisele for the kind invitation! 1/25/18 Prof. Peterson gives a seminar to University of Notre Dame's EE Department. Thank you to Prof. Patrick Fay for hosting! 11/3/17 Prof. Peterson gives a seminar at University of Minnesota's ECE Department. Thank you to Prof. Sarah Swisher for hosting! 11/1/17 Congratulations to PhD candidate Youngbae Son on publication of his paper: " The effects of localized tail states on charge transport mechanisms in amorphous zinc tin oxide Schottky diodes " in Semiconductor Science and Technology ! 9/15/17 PhD student Zumrad Kabilova gives a talk on " Charge transport in highly doped (010) - Ga 2 O 3 single crystals made by edge-defined film-fed growth " at the 2nd International Workshop on Gallium Oxide and Related Materials in Parma, Italy. Great job, Zumrad! 9/13/17 PhD student Hannah Masten gives a talk on " Photo-assisted capacitance-voltage characterization of interface states in SiO 2 /-Ga 2 O 3 (010) MOS capacitors " at the 2nd International Workshop on Gallium Oxide and Related Materials in Parma, Italy. Well done, Hannah! 9/12/17 Prof. Peterson gives a seminar at the Center for Nanoscience and Technology at the Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia (CNST IIT@Polimi). Thank you to Dr. Mario Caironi for hosting! 9/11/17 Congratulations to alum Dr. Wenbing Hu for publication of another paper based on his PhD work in PetersonLab: " The roles of rare-earth dopants in solution-processed ZnO-based transparent conductive oxides " in the Journal of Applied Physics ! More News ... Home Welcome to the PetersonLab PI: Assistant Professor Becky (R. L.) Peterson Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science 1301 Beal Avenue, Room 2302 The University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2122 USA Phone: (734) 615-3105 email: blpeters AT umich DOT edu PetersonLab group at Electronic Materials Conference, June 2017 Research Interests "Electronics on Anything": 3-D additive hetero-integration of thin film electronics with CMOS, MEMS, and interposers Solution-processed inorganic electronic materials and devices, including semiconductor physics and device fabrication Power semiconductor devices using oxide semiconductors Transparent or "invisible" circuits; flexible electronics and sensors, including mechanical and electrical properties of thin films Self-assembled nanofabrication and additive manufacturing of electronics Education and Training B.S.E.E., University of Rochester, NY M.S.E.E., University of Minnesota, Twin Cities Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ Post-doc, Cavendish Laboratory, Department of Physics, University of Cambridge, UK Positions Available at PetersonLab The PetersonLab is part of the Solid State Electronics Laboratory of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. PetersonLab's work focuses on new electronics materials and fabrication processes for applications in sensors, electronics, optoelectronics and energy technologies. Prof. Peterson welcomes applications from focused and creative incoming PhD students and potential post-doctoral fellows. Prospective PhD students should apply to the Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) PhD program via http://www.rackham.umich.edu/admissions/applying and contact Prof. Peterson via email (blpeters AT umich DOT edu). Potential post-doc fellows with a documented history of excellence in research and publication should contact Prof. Peterson to inquire about openings. There are also opportunities for African scholars to visit University of Michigan for four to six months, through the University of Michigan's African Presidential Scholars (UMAPS) program. More information is available here: https://ii.umich.edu/asc/umaps.html . Interested faculty from Africa should please contact Prof. Peterson directly to discuss potential collaborations through this program. 2013 Regents of the University of Michigan | University of Michigan | Michigan Engineering Sign in | Report Abuse | Print Page | Powered By Google Sites 
