 Resonant MEMS Group - University of Michigan Welcome to the Resonant MEMS Group website. Our work is primarily in the area of adaptable nano- and Micro-electromechanical systems (N/MEMS) for smart radio applications and high-frequency telecommunication. More specifically, we are working on developing a technology platform that offers diverse functionalities by integrating more-than-Moore components such as reconfigurable passives, switches, and sensors all integrated on the same substrate. For decades, the electronics industry has benefited mainly from integration and scaling of transistors. The next era is about functional diversification and monolithic/heterogeneous integration of new devices and material systems on the same chip or in the same package at low cost. Because of many advantages of silicon, the future of electronics depends not on displacing it, but rather on integration of other material systems with silicon to leverage advantages of both technologies. To this end, we are working on integrating novel sensors using gallium nitride or aluminum nitride thin-films onto silicon platforms. An example is our recently developed uncooled infrared sensors that make use of intrinsic temperature-sensitive properties of piezo/pyroelectric materials to achieve high sensitivity, with applications in low-power night vision and proximity sensing. Currently, most electronic circuits are targeted for a specific application and their functionality is fixed. There is a great demand for smart electronics, where the system response can change in different conditions. To develop such a system, in addition to sensor integration for situation awareness, it is essential to develop reconfigurable hardware. To address this need, we are developing several electrically tunable components, including reconfigurable filters, capacitors, and inductors. More recently, we are developing new switch structures using a phase-change material, germanium telluride. Such switches are as small as their semiconductor counterparts and can be integrated on silicon for increased versatility but offer significantly lower loss and higher isolation at the off state. Our group, the Resonant MEMS group, is part of the Wireless Integrated MicroSensing & Systems (WIMS 2 ) Center at the University of Michigan. Watch our Meet the Faculty YouTube video at: Resonant MEMS: Mina Rais-Zadeh Recent News Resonant MEMS group welcomes Dr. Afzaal Qamar Congratulations to Dr. Muzhi Wang on successfully defending his Ph.D. Congratulations to Azadeh on her new position: Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology Current Research Projects High-Performance Integrated RF Tunable Components and Filters RF Switches using Phase Change Materials Gallium Nitride Resonators and Resonant Body Transistors Non-linear Effects in Gallium Nitride Acoustic Resonators Piezoelectric Micromechanical Resonators for IR Detection Chip Scale Ultra-Stable Clocks Single Chip Timing and Inertial Measurement Unit Copyright 2019 The University of Michigan 
