 BIRDS Menu About Research People Shai Revzen Current Members Lab Alumni Media YouTube Channel Blog Talks Robots Teaching Publications General Publications Conferences Code Internal Lab Wiki Calendar inventory Welcome to the Biologically Inspired Robotics Lab! EECS 498: Hands-on Robotics Welcome Professor Revzen and his team at the Biologically Inspired Robotics and Dynamical Systems (BIRDS) Lab are working on discovering, modeling, and reproducing the strategies animals use when interacting with physical objects. This work consists of collaboration with biomechanists to analyze experimental data, developing new mathematical tools for modeling and estimation of model parameters, and construction of robots which employ the new principles. Suggested Reading The Twisting Tennis Racket This paper describes, analyzes, and explains a novel twisting phenomenon which occurs in a triaxial rigid body (such as a tennis racket) when it is rotating ... Event Triggered Stablization Event-triggered control is an idea that appears pleasing theoretically, as well as relaxes the need to have periodic signalling - robotics, it would reduce c... A direct method for Trajectory Optimization of Rigid Bodies Through Contact A paper about trajectory optimization in hybrid systems. Interesting, as it relaxes would be naively been consider a core constraint of hybrid systems - the ... Optimization-based Locomotion Planning, Estimation, and Control Design for Atlas Humonoid Robot A fun paper expanding on the control methods used in the well-known and well-performing Atlas robots by Boston Dynamics. A little bit of a 'behind the curtai... Sensory Feedback in Cockroach Locomotion - Current Knowledge and Open Questions The American cockroach, Periplaneta americana, provides a successful model for the study of legged locomotion. Sensory regulation and the relative importance... Snake-Like Robots Limbless organisms such as snakes can navigate nearly all terrain. In particular, desert-dwelling sidewinder rattlesnakes (Crotalus cerastes) operate effecti... Recent News Dynamic Walking 2018 In May 2018, we had the opportunity to present and attend at Dynamic Walking 2018 held in Pensacola, FL. A nice proof of Grnwall's inequality Here is a nice proof of Grnwall's inequality. Affine Nonholonomic Systems Lagrangian mechanics is an important tool to understanding mechanical systems, but often must incoporate nonholonomic constraints. When the constraints are a... Differentiation under the integral sign In calculus, Leibniz's rule for differentiation under the integral sign states that, modulo precise regularity assumptions, $$\frac{d}{dx} \int_{a(x)}^{b(x)}... SICB 2018 In January 2018, we had the opportunity to present and attend at SICB 2018 held in San Francisco, CA. A fun fact about the Euler characteristic There are many equivalent definitions of the Euler characteristic $\chi(Y)$ of a space $Y$. I recently learned another of these, valid in the case that $Y$ i... Contact Us Email: shrevzen[at]umich[dot]edu Location: Room 4344, EECS Building, 1301 Beal Avenue, Ann Arbor, MI Campus Map 2016 BIRDS. All rights reserved. 
