 My name is Sarah Abraham, and I am a lecturer at the University of Texas at Austin in the Department of Computer Science. For my dissertation, I worked with Don Fussell in the high performance computer graphics lab with an interest in non-photorealistic rendering, and intuitive simulation-based tools for artists. My other interest is video game design and programming. Video games fascinate me as both an artistic and entertainment medium, and I am very inspired by the film makers Andrei Tarkovsky, Akira Kurosawa, and Yuri Norstein, as well as the philosophy and humanity of the 19th Century Russian writers such as Lev Tolstoy and Fyodor Dostoevsky. I believe video games can foster greater cooperation and empathy, and I am exploring this through my company, Akula Games . Publications Fluid Brush . Sarah Abraham, Etienne Vouga, and Donald Fussell. 2018. In Proceedings of the Joint Symposium on Computational Aesthetics and Sketch-Based Interfaces and Modeling and Non-Photorealistic Animation and Rendering (Expressive '18). Supplementary Material . Skazka: Exploring Empathy Through Cooperative Mechanics and Narrative. . Sarah Abraham. Rivers, S. E., & McDonald, H. (2018). Well Played Vol. 7, No. 2. Pittsburgh, PA: Carnegie Mellon University: ETC Press. Smoke Brush . Sarah Abraham and Donald Fussell. 2014. In Proceedings of the Workshop on Non-Photorealistic Animation and Rendering (NPAR '14). Current Courses CS354 Computer Graphics. CS354R Game Technology. CS329E Elements of Mobile Computing. All Courses CS354 Computer Graphics. CS354R Game Technology. CS329E Elements of Mobile Computing. CS324E Elements of Graphics. CS349 Contemporary Issues in Computer Science. Akula Games Akula Games started as an experiment in mobile development, but we are currently working on our first PC title, Skakza . You can learn more about this development process through our blog, Tale of Tales . We also are developing educational curriculum for K-12 by using game development as a platform for critical reasoning and mastering material. You can learn more about this initiative at Akula Games: Education . 
