 Warren A. Hunt, Jr. Professor Department of Computer Sciences The University of Texas at Austin Department of Computer Science 2317 Speedway, M/S D9500 The University of Texas Austin, TX 78712-0233 Office: Gates Hall (GDC) 7.818 E-mail: hunt@cs.utexas.edu Tel: +1 512 471 9748 FAX: +1 512 471 8885 Web: http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/hunt/index.html Office Hours For Fall, 2017, I am not holding regular office hours. Please send me an E-mail message to schedule an appointment. Interest Areas My research involves the use of formal mathematics to write specifications for computer hardware and software and to use proof techniques to determine the validity of such specifications. Specifications of both high-level intent and low-level implementations are possible, and mechanical proof techniques can determine whether implementations satisfy their specifications. Over the years, I have verified a number of different microprocessor designs of increasing complexity. I am also interested in computer architecture, low-power computing, garbage collection, and biological-inspired computing. Currently, I am working on specifying computer memory models, extending our x86 specification, and on SAT proof checking. Addtional details are available. Accomplishments My primary contributions concern the formal specification and verification of digital computing systems. I am currently involved with X86 ISA specification and validation of SAT solvers. I also worked briefly in the area of computational biology. I have listed some of these efforts. Course Information Notes and information for my courses are on-line. I would appreciate any feedback and corrections. Papers, Resume, and Personal Information In my vita is a listing of all of my papers; there are also links to each of my papers. Out of consideration for my references, I do not include their names and contact information on the Web, but they are available upon request. A short biography is available. My Google Scholar page can be used to find many of my publications. Research Topics I am working on several research topics. Please contact me if you desire additional information. Some Talks In 2017, I gave an invited talk to the JASON Advisory Group about our hardware-focused efforts. In 2016, I gave an invited talk at the Royal Society about our specifying the x86 ISA and our use of this specificaiton. I gave an invited talk at ITP 2011, about our work with Centaur Technology, Inc., where we are verifying various properties of the 64-bit, VIA Nano, X86-compatible microprocessor. I gave a talk at CAV 2009 about my work with Sol Swords regarding our efforts at applying our tools to VIA's Nano processor. I was one several presenters at the CAV2004 tutorial on microprocessor verification. I presented slides outlining the difficulty of identifying microprocessor correctness statements, and I presented a summary of the verification of the FM9801 (Jun Sawada's PhD Dissertation work) as an example microprocessor verification effort. In the second part of my presentation, I presented slides with some thoughts of what facilities future hardware verifications system should include. FMCAD I am chairman of the FMCAD steering committee. The FMCAD conference series has existed since 1996. The conference is supported by FMCAD, Inc., and the conference has enjoyed "in-kind" support from the ACM and the IEEE. For 1996 -- 2004, FMCAD conference proceeding were published in Springer's LNCS. Since 2005, FMCAD conference papers are available in the ACM and IEEE digital libraries. Additional details about FMCAD are available. Professional Associates Robert S. Boyer -- UTCS Professor Emeritus. Jared Davis -- PhD & Apple Engineer. Jo Ebergen -- PhD & Senior Consulting Engineer, Oracle. Shilpi Goel -- PhD & Engineer, Centaur Technology. Marijn Heule -- PhD & UTCS Research Assistant Professor. Matt Kaufmann -- PhD & UTCS Senior Research Scientist. J Strother Moore -- UTCS Professor Emeritus. David Rager -- PhD & Scientist, Oracle. Sandip Ray -- PhD & Endowed IoT Term Professor, University of Florida at Gainesville. Marly Roncken -- Senior Research Associate, Portland State University. Anna Slobodova -- PhD & Principal Engineer, Centaur Technology. Ivan Sutherland -- Research Professor, Portland State University. Sol Swords -- PhD & Engineer, Centaur Technology. Tandy Warnow -- UIUC Founder Professor. Nathan Weltzer -- PhD & Engineer, Intel Corporation. Current PhD Students: PhD students that work in my research group. Cuong Chau -- CS PhD Student. Mihir Mehta -- CS PhD Student. Mertcan Temel -- ECE PhD Student. Current PhD Candidates: PhD students that have successfully proposed and for which I am acting as their principal advisor. Graduated PhDs Jun Sawada -- CS PhD, 1999. Shant Harutunian -- ECE PhD, Spring, 2007. Erik Reeber -- CS PhD, Fall, 2007. Serita Nelesen -- CS PhD, co-advised with Tandy Warnow , Fall, 2009. Sol Swords -- CS PhD, Fall, 2010. David Rager -- CS PhD, Fall, 2012. Ian Wehrman -- CS PhD, co-advised with J Moore , Fall, 2012. Nathan Weltzer -- CS PhD, co-advised with Marijn Heule , Spring, 2015. Shilpi Goel -- CS PhD, Fall 2016. Standard disclaimer Nothing on my web pages should be taken as representing the official position of the University of Texas at Austin or any other part of the government of the State of Texas. Up To the University of Texas at Austin Computer Sciences Department . 
