 Raymond J. Mooney Professor of Computer Science , The University of Texas at Austin Director of the UT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory B.S. in Computer Engineering , University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign , 1983 M.S. in Computer Science , University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign , 1985 Ph.D. in Computer Science , University of Illinois at Urbana/Champaign , 1988 Research Teaching Personal Contact Note to Grad-Student Applicants Research Interests and Publications As a member of the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory I lead the Machine Learning Research Group which has explored a variety of areas, but my current focus is on natural language processing / computational linguistics. Recent Publications: Here are my publications for 2018 , 2017 , 2016 , and 2015 . Primary Research Areas (click on an area for related publications): Natural Language Learning : Learning for syntactic and semantic parsing, lexicon acquisition, information extraction, language generation, machine translation, and word sense disambiguation. Connecting Language and Perception : Grounding natural language understanding in computer vision and robotics. Statistical Relational Learning : Learning methods that combine the strengths of predicate logic and probability. Information Extraction : Identifying specific pieces of structured data in web pages or natural-language documents. Transfer Learning : Using previously acquired knowledge to aid learning on new related problems. Active Learning : Automated selection of good training examples for supervised or semi-supervised learning. Abductive Reasoning : Producing the best explanation for observed evidence using both logical and probabilistic reasoning. Text Categorization and Clustering : Supervised and unsupervised classification of documents and web pages. Text Data Mining : Discovering knowledge from text using information extraction and rule induction. Record Linkage & Duplicate Detection : Identifying textually similar but distinct database records that refer to the same entity. Bioinformatics : Learning to extract knowledge from biomedical literature. Semi-Supervised Learning : Learning from a mixture of labeled and unlabeled data. Ensemble Learning : Learning effective committees of hypotheses. Learning for Recommender Systems : Content-based and collaborative recommending. Inductive Logic Programming : Learning Prolog programs (rules in first-order predicate logic) from examples. Knowledge-Base and Theory Refinement : Automatically modifying rule bases and Bayesian networks to fit empirical data. For a complete list of areas and publications, see the UT Machine Learning Research Group home page. Also see my profile on Google Scholar . Current Research Group Meetings: NLL : Natural Language Learning CLAMP : Connecting Language and Perception Text2Animation : Generating graphics animations from natural language NL4SE : Natural Language for Software Engineering XAI : Explainable AI Additional Affiliations: I am also a member of the UT Computational Linguistics Lab . I am also affiliated with the UT Department of Statistics and Data Science . I am also affiliated with the UT Center for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics . I was President of the International Machine Learning Society from 2008-2011. I was program co-chair (with Yolanda Gil ) of the Twenty-First National Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-06) in Boston, July 16-20, 2006. I was general chair of the joint Human Language Technology Conference / Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing Conference for 2005 (HLT/EMNLP-05) . I was elected a Fellow of the American Association for Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) in 2005 "For significant contributions to machine learning, particularly explanation-based learning, theory refinement, and learning for natural-language processing." I was elected a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) in 2010 "For contributions to machine learning and natural language processing." I was elected a Fellow of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL) in 2014 "For significant contributions to machine learning for semantic parsing, language generation, and multimodal integration." Vita: See my complete vita (in PDF). Research Talks: See a video of my invited talk on "The Deep Learning Revolution: Progress, Promise and Profligate Promotion" at Computing in the 21st Century 2017 . See videos of my invited talks on grounded language learning at Cornell Tech (2017) , NIPS 2015 Multimodal Machine Learning Workshop , and AAAI-2013 . Also see my research talks on Deep Natural Language Semantics and Generating Natural-Language Video Descriptions Using Text-Mined Knowledge , as well as Powerpoint presentations for some of my older talks . Course Information Spring 2019 CS 395T: Grounded Natural Language Processing Fall 2018 CS 371R: Information Retrieval and Web Search Spring 2018 CS 388: Natural Language Processing Fall 2010 CS 343: Artificial Intelligence Spring 2009 CS 178H: Introduction to CS Research Fall 2007 CS 391L: Machine Learning Personal History I grew up in the 60's and 70's in the small town of O'Fallon Illinois where starting in 1967 I attended St. Clare grade school and, starting in 1975, O'Fallon Township Highschool . See a scanned version of a paper I wrote (on a typewriter!) for a high-school English class when I was only 17 years old entitled "High-level Artificial Intelligence: An Imminent Possibility with an Enormous Potential for Good" . My enthusiasm for AI started early and has not waned; however, my expections about AI's rate of progress and its positive social implications have matured and (hopefully) become more realistic. In the fall of 1979, I went to the University of Illinois in Champaign - Urbana to obtain all of the degrees listed above. In December 1987, I completed my Ph.D. thesis under the direction of Prof. Gerald DeJong and then began as a faculty member here in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Texas at Austin where I am enjoying the beginning of the fourth decade of a hopefully long academic career. See more information on my academic genealogy , which traces my professorial lineage back through Danish Linguists to German Theologians. Contact Information Office: 3.512 GDC , (512) 471-9558 Email address: mooney@cs.utexas.edu Fax: (512) 471-8885 Postal address: Department of Computer Science The University of Texas at Austin 2317 Speedway, Stop D9500 Austin , Texas 78712-1757 U.S.A. Home address: 4707 Eby Lane Austin , Texas 78731-4507 U.S.A. Note to Potential Grad-Student and Internship Applicants Unfortunately, I am unable to personally respond to email requests regarding application to our graduate program or other solicitations for positions in my research lab. I encourage potential graduate-student applicants to see the department information on applying to our graduate program . Graduate-student applicants interested in my research are encouraged to clearly state such interests in their "statement of purpose." I am afraid I currently have no funding or capacity to advise summer internships. mooney@cs.utexas.edu 
