 Simon Peter Department of Computer Science, The University of Texas at Austin Office: GDC 6.430 Contact Department of Computer Science The University of Texas at Austin 2317 Speedway, Stop D9500 Austin, TX 78712 USA simon@cs.utexas.edu About me I am an assistant professor in the Computer Science department at UT Austin, since January 2016. I am always looking for talented graduate students. If you are interested, please apply to the UTCS graduate program . I graduated with a Ph.D. (Dr. sc. ETH) in Computer Science at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Zurich, in October 2012. Prior to that I graduated (Dipl.-Inf.) from the Carl-von-Ossietzky University of Oldenburg, Germany in 2006 with a major in Computer Science and a minor in Music. Before my position as assistant professor at UT Austin, I was a post-doc at the University of Washington with Tom Anderson and Arvind Krishnamurthy, from 2012 to 2015. I am one of the founding authors of the Barrelfish multicore operating system. Students I have the honor to be advising a number of exceptional graduate students. Here they are: Amanda Austin Ming Liu (at UW) Syed Akbar Mehdi Tim Stamler Graduated students (and where they went): Antoine Kaufmann, Ph.D. (MPI-SWS) Youngjin Kwon, Ph.D. (KAIST) Cody Littley, MSc (Nutanix) Dhathri Purohith, MSc (Nutanix) Research My research interests are in Operating Systems and Networks. My current research projects are: FlexNIC: a NIC architecture and network stack for data centers (publications on the Arrakis website) Strata: A Cross Media File System Memory management for heterogeneous memory systems Improving data center energy efficiency via heterogeneous server architectures Teaching Spring 2019: Multicore Operating Systems Implementation (378) Fall 2018: Data Centers (395T) Spring 2018: Multicore Operating Systems Implementation (378) Spring 2017: Multicore Operating Systems Implementation (378) Fall 2016: Multicore Operating Systems Implementation (395T) Fall 2014: PMP Graduate Operating Systems (CSEP551) , together with Andrew Baumann (MSR) at UW Vita and Publications Please, read my CV . It has all of the information and I keep it updated. I also have a Google Scholar page , if you prefer a quick overview of my publications, but it typically lags behind my CV. Personal Apart from CS, I enjoy making and listening to music. I used to play the violin and compose electronic music on the computer. The advent of reasonably precise DJ controllers recently allow me to resurrect many of the old sounds in new ways . I enjoy going skiing in the winter and hiking in the summer. When I'm not doing any of the above, you'll probably find me dancing Lindy Hop . In my teenage years, I used to be active in the Demoscene , a computer art subculture and I have fond memories of the good old times. I was born in Oldenburg, situated in north-west Germany, and enjoyed living a good deal of my youth in the cozy area of Bad Zwischenahn. 
