 Bill Press' Home Page Bill Press (also indexed on the web as William Press and William H. Press ) is the Warren J. and Viola M. Raymer Professor in Computer Science and in Integrative Biology at the University of Texas at Austin . His affiliations at UT include memberships in the Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology ( ICMB ) and in the Institute for Computational Engineering and Sciences ( ICES ). Press is also a Senior Fellow (emeritus) at the Los Alamos National Laboratory ( LANL ) in the Statistical Sciences group ( CCS-6 ). His research is on computational biology, genomics, and computational statistical methods. Prior to June, 2004, he served for five years as LANL's Deputy Laboratory Director for Science and Technology. Before that, he was for twenty years Professor of Astronomy and Physics at Harvard University, and a member of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. In April, 2009, President Obama named Press as a member of his President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) . Bill's present and previous work touches several different communities: You might know him as a computational biologist and computer scientist , or earlier as a theoretical astrophysicist , or else you might know him as the co-author and (in his off hours) co-maintainer of the Numerical Recipes series of books on scientific computer programming. (He is further involved in other professional activities .) No relation to a different Bill Press whom you might see as a political commentator on cable television. Contact Information Email: Fax: +512 471-8694 Phone: +512 232-4022 (Sorry, I can't help you with Numerical Recipes problems. Instead, look here .) Or, as a last resort, mail: Prof. William Press Institute for Computational Engineering and Sciences ACES 4.102 1 University Station (C0200) Austin, TX 78712 (U.S.A.) Professional Information Narrative Biography (one-page) Recent (and Highly Cited Older) Publications (including online links) Web Notes and Unpublished Papers Curriculum Vitae (PDF, excluding bibliography) Publications (complete bibliography as PDF, no links) Professional Background (HTML) Other Professional Activities (HTML) Honors, Awards, and Memberships (HTML) Photos for external use ("head shots"). Formal (print resolution): [1] [2] [3] (photo credit: Sara Press ) Candid (web resolution): [4] [5] (no photo credits) Additional Links My Google Scholar page (citations) My LinkedIn page (mostly up-to-date) My Google+ page (not very active) My Facebook page (not very active) Youtube Channel: OpinionatedLessons Course: CS378H "Public Policy and the Digitally Native Technologist" (Spring, 2016) Course: CS395T "Computational Statistics" (Spring, 2014) Lectures on Statistics: 4th IMPRS Astronomy Summer School (Heidelberg, August 2009) Course: Astronomy 45 "Introduction to Astrophysics" (1997) Rybicki & Press Fast Statistical Methods Page Photo Gallery of Family, Friends, and Colleagues 
