 Robert A. van de Geijn Professor Department of Computer Sciences and Texas Institute for Computational Engineering and Sciences (ICES) The University of Texas at Austin Austin, TX 78712 Office: GDC 5.704 Phone: (512) 471-9720 Fax: (512) 471-8885 e-mail: rvdg@cs.utexas.edu URL: http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/rvdg ACM Digital Library Profile Google Scholar Profile ResearchGate Profile B.S. in Mathematics and Computer Science (1981) University of Wisconsin-Madison Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics (1987) University of Maryland College Park Areas of Interest Formal derivation of algorithms, mechanical generation of libraries, numerical analysis, parallel supercomputing, scientific computing, high-performance linear algebra libraries. Summary of Research The advent of architectures with multi-level memories, including caches, shared memories, and distributed memories, has forced a re-evaluation of how linear algebra libraries are developed. Surprisingly, we have found that the key to the development of high-performance linear algebra libraries for such architectures is the application of formal derivation methods from computer science. As part of the Formal Linear Algebra Methods Environment (FLAME), we have demonstrated that proof of correctness can be established hand-in-hand with the derivation of families of algorithms for a given linear algebra operation. By coding the resulting library using an API so that the code resembles the algorithm, the correctness of the algorithm implies the correctness of the implementation. The methodology has been demonstrated to apply to essentially all operations covered by the BLAS, LAPACK, and beyond. We believe the methodology is sufficiently systematic that is can be automated, including cost and stability analyses. Curriculum Vitae PDF format (last updated September 2014) More Information about our Graduate Programs Computer Sciences Computational Science, Engineering, Mathematics Current Projects The Formal Linear Algebra Methods Environment (FLAME) Project The Parallel Linear Algebra Package (PLAPACK) project Publications For recent publications, see the FLAME Publication Webpage Or, see my Google Scholar Profile (I suggest you click on "Year" to order them most recent first.) Major Software Efforts Current and Former Students 
