Christoper L. Barrett Executive Director, Biocomplexity Institute & InitiativeProfessor, Computer Science Bio U.S. Navy Aerospace Experimental Psychology, Medical Service Corps Post Ph.D. Certification, 1986California Institute of Technology, Ph.D. in Bioinformation Systems and Engineering Science, 1985California Institute of Technology, M.S., Engineering Science, 1983University of New Mexico, B.S., 1976 "The Biocomplexity Institute encourages formal, analytical and computational methods that unify approaches to disparate problems ranging from biomolecular science to public policy. Our transdisciplinary teams of research scientists create analytical innovations that extend human capability to understand and manage massive interdependencies in the real world. Such problems do not normally conform to disciplinary boundaries or convenient scales; they do not conform to distinctions between engineering and basic science. However, scientific pursuit of ever-improving approaches to these complex problems - as they occur - is critical to human survival. " Christopher L. Barrett, Executive Director, Biocomplexity Institute & Initiative Christopher L. Barrett is Professor and Executive Director of the Biocomplexity Institute & Initiative at the University of Virginia. He is an interdisciplinary computational scientist who has published more than 100 research articles exploring all aspects of large multiscale interaction systems. Over the past 35 years, Barrett has conceived, founded and led large interdisciplinary complex systems research projects and organizations, established national and international technology programs, and co-founded organizations for federal agencies such as the Department of Defense, the Department of Energy and the Department of Homeland Security. He has served in various advisory and collaborative scientific roles internationally. Barrett is the recipient of the 20122013 Jubilee Professorship in Computer Science and Engineering at Chalmers University in Sweden and is a member of the 2010 Royal Colloquium for the King of Sweden. He was a distinguished international professor at the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm (19971998). He has received Distinguished Research, Service, Advisory and Security Awards from the U.S. Navy, Los Alamos National Laboratory, and the Alliance for Transportation Research. He has served as advisor to many organizations, including U.S. Government Agencies, the Commonwealth of Virginia, and the European Commission. He holds seven patents and has nine pending. Full Biography | Full CV Awards Jubilee Distinguished Professor of Computer Science at Chalmers University, Sweden 20122013 Distinguished Achievement Award, Los Alamos National Laboratory 1995 Meritorious Service Medal (U.S. Navy) for research and development in automated assisted reasoning systems for naval aircraft 1988 Research Interests Large multi-scale, high-performance modeling and simulation systems grounded in computational and information sciences spanning mathematical, biological, psychological and social sciences Dynamical Networks called Sequential/Graphical systems grounded in topics ranging from RNA to social dynamics and policy Theoretical and applied research in intelligent systems Translational research-to-application analytics and machine intelligence In the News UVA to Lead Statewide 'Biocomplexity Initiative' UVA to Lead Statewide 'Biocomplexity Initiative' UVA Today Article by, Fariss Samarrai The University of Virginia is developing a new statewide, multi-site Biocomplexity Initiative that seeks to employ the principles of interdisciplinary team science to integrate such diverse disciplines as molecular science and public policy analysis in order to solve complex and multidimensional problems in medicine and society. Chris Barrett, a global leader in applying computer science concepts and tools to making new discoveries in complex systems involving human health, habitat and well-being, will lead the initiative. He has directed the Biocomplexity Institute at Virginia Tech for the past four years and is a professor of computer science. He comes to UVA in September to establish an institute that will collaborate with researchers across Virginia. Read More Selected Publications Sequence-structure relations of biopolymers ABS Barrett C, Huang F, Reidys C. Bioinformatics, 33 (3):382389. (2018) Multiplicity of phenotypes and RNA evolution ABS Rezazadegan R, Barrett C, Reidys C. Journal of Theoretical Biology, 447:13946. (2018) A Simulation Environment for the Dynamic Evaluation of Disaster Preparedness Policies and Interventions ABS Lewis B, Swarup S, Bisset K, Eubank S, Marathe M, Barrett C. Journal of Public Health Management and Practice, 19: S42-S48. (2013) Human Initiated Cascading Failures in Societal Infrastructures. ABS Barrett C, Channakeshava K, Huang F, Kim J, Marathe A, Marathe M, Pei G, Saha S, Subbiah R, Vullikanti A PLoS ONE, 7(10): e45406. (2012) Economic and social impact of influenza mitigation strategies by demographic class ABS Barrett C, Bisset K, Leidig J, Marathe A, Marathe M Epidemics ournal, 3(1):19-31. (2011) Predecessor existence problems for finite discrete dynamical systems ABS Barrett C, Hunt III H, Marathe M, Ravi S, Rosenkrantz D, Stearns R, Thakur M. Theoretical Computer Science, 386(12):337. (2007) Complexity of reachability problems for finite discrete dynamical systems ABS Barrett C, Hunt III H, Marathe, M, Ravi, S, Rosenkrantz, D, Stearns, R Journal of Computer and System Sciences, 72(8):13171345. (2006) The distance-2 matching problem and its relationship to the MAC-layer capacity of ad hoc wireless networks ABS Balakrishnan H, Barrett C, Vullikanti A, Marathe M, Thite S IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, 22(6):1069-1079. (2004) Reachability problems for sequential dynamical systems with threshold functions ABS Barrett C, Hunt III HB, Marathe M, Ravi S, Rosenkrantz D, Stearns R Theoretical Computer Science, 295(13): 4164. (2003) TRANSIMS: Transportation analysis simulation system. Los Alamos National Laboratory Unclassified Report (unclassified). Barrett C, Beckman R, Berkbigler K, Bisset K, Bush B, Campbell K, Marathe M (2001) Elements of a theory of simulation II: sequential dynamical systems ABS Barrett C, Mortveit H, Reidys C Applied Mathematics and Computation, 107(2-3):121-136.(2000) Formal language constrained path problems ABS SIAM Journal of Computing Barrett C, Jacob R, Marathe M , 30(3):809837.(2000) Using Microsimulation Feedback For Trip Adaptation For Realistic Traffic In Dallas ABS Nagel K, Barrett C International Journal of Modern Physics C, 08(03):505-525.(1997) Contact Information Christoper L. Barrett Biocomplexity Institute & Initiative Town Center III 995 Research Park Blvd. Suite 400 Charlottesville, Virginia 22911 ChrisBarrett@virginia.edu
