Madhur Behl Assistant Professor, Computer ScienceEngineering Systems & Environment Bio B.S. PEC University of Technology, Chandigarh, India, 2009M.S. University of Pennsylvania, 2012Ph.D. University of Pennsylvania, 2015Post-Doc University of Pennsylvania, Jan 2016 - June 2016 "My research develops foundational data-driven theory and tools for problems of modeling, control, simulation, and operation of cyber-physical systems." Madhur Behl, Assistant Professor Dr. Madhur Behl, is an assistant professor in Computer Science at the University of Virginia. He has a secondary appointment in Engineering Systems & Environment at UVA. He is also the Co-Founder of Expresso Logic, a NSF SBIR small business delivering machine learning solutions to control engineering problems. He received his Ph.D. (2015) and M.S. (2012), in Electrical and Systems Engineering, both from the University of Pennsylvania. He has held visiting researcher positions at Honeywell Automation and Control Laboratory, and at ETH Zurich, Switzerland. His research interests lie in cyber physical systems, machine learning, control systems, statistics, and optimization. His work on Data Predictive Control (DPC) aims at bridging the gap between machine learning and control synthesis. Applications of his work include energy-efficient buildings, smart cities, industrial automation, advanced manufacturing, autonomous vehicles, internet of things, and medical devices. Dr. Behl is the winner of the Department of Energys EERE 2016 Cleantech University Prize (regional). His research has won the TECHCON Best Paper Award (2015), and the best demo award at BuildSys, 2012. In 2011, he won the World Embedded Software Contest held in Seoul by the Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy. He is also the recipient of the 2011 Richard K. Dentel Memorial Prize awarded for research in urban transportation. Dr. Behl also serves as an invited member on the Future Directions subcommittee of the IEEE Power and Energy Society. Awards Winner of the 2106 DoE EEREs Allegheny Region Cleantech University Prize, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, USA. 2016 Best Paper Award , for Sometimes, Money Does Grow on Trees: Data-Driven Demand Response with DR-Advisor, Internet of Things Session at the Semiconductor Research Corporations (SRC) TECHCON, Austin, USA. 2015 Best Demo Award at BuildSys, 4th ACM Workshop On Embedded Systems For Energy-Efficiency In Buildings, Toronto, Canada. 2012 Richard K. Dentel Memorial Prize in Urban Transportation, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA. 2011 Winner of the World Embedded Software Contest, Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy and Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute (ETRI), Seoul, South Korea. 2010 Research Interests Internet of Things Autonomy and Controls/Control Systems Intelligent Transportation Systems Smart Buildings/Cities Human Machine Interface Machine Learning, Text Mining, Information Retrieval Computational Statistics and Simulation/Statistical Modeling Optimization Models and Methods Machine Learning Selected Publications Data-Driven Modeling, Control and Tools for Cyber- Physical Energy Systems ACM/IEEE Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems, April 2016 ABS Madhur Behl, Achin Jain, and Rahul Mangharam "Data Predictive Control for Peak Power Reduction", ACM Proceedings of the 3rd ACM International Conference on Systems for Energy-Efficient Built Environments, Pg. 109-118, BuildSys 2016, Palo Alto, November 2016. ABS Achin Jain, Rahul Mangharam, Madhur Behl DR-Advisor: A data-driven demand response rec- ommender system Journal of Applied Energy, v. 170, pages 30-46 , 2016. ABS Madhur Behl, Francesco Smarra, Rahul Mangharam " Model-IQ: Uncertainty Propagation from Sensing to Modeling and Control in Buildings." , ACM/IEEE 5th International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems (with CPS Week 2014), Pages 13-24,Berlin, Germany, April 2014 ABS Madhur Behl, Truong Nghiem, Rahul Mangharam "Data Predictive Control for building energy management", In Proceedings of the 2017 American Control Conference. IEEE, May 2017. Achin Jain, Madhur Behl, Rahul Mangharam Google Scholar ResearchGate Courses Taught F1/10 Autonomous Racing - Control, Algorithms and Embedded Design. Spring 2016 Featured Grants & Projects Expresso Logic I am the co-founder of Expresso logic, a NSF SBIR and DoE Cleantech awardee startup delivering customized machine learning based solution to domain specific control engineering problems. Our DropLogic demand response software provides a data intelligence layer and a recommendation systems for buildings and electricity grid operators, and helps remove any guesswork from the implementation of optimized electricity demand response. Better demand response means that less efficient, and often more expensive, forms of electricity generation do not need to come online during times of high electricity demand. Contact Information Madhur Behl Computer Science, Engineering Systems & Environment Office: Olsson Hall, Rm. 265 Lab: Link Lab PO Box 400336 Charlottesville, Virginia 22904 Phone: 434-924-1021 madhur.behl@virginia.edu Linkedin My Links Website Link Lab Autonomous Racing Competition
