Anita Jones University Professor Emerita Bio Ph.D. in Computer Science from Carnegie-Mellon University, 1973 "Water and fertilize the seeds of research today if you want flowers to bloom in the U.S. economy tomorrow." Areas Of Interest Distributed systems, high performance systems, computer simulation, intrusion detection, survivable information systems, protection and security, and national science and engineering policy Biographical Sketch Anita Jones received her Ph.D. in Computer Science from Carnegie-Mellon University in 1973. She left CMU as an Associate Professor when she co-founded Tartan Laboratories. She was vice-president of Tartan from 1981-87. In 1988 she joined UVa as a Professor and the Chair of the Computer Science Department. From 1993-1997 she served at the U.S. Department of Defense where, as Director of Defense Research and Engineering, she oversaw the department's science and technology program, research laboratories, and DARPA. She received the U.S. Air Force Meritorious Civilian Service Award, a Distinguished Public Service Award, and a tribute in the Congressional Record. She served as Vice Chair of the National Science Board, a member of the Defense Science Board, and Co-Chair of the Virginia Research and Technology Advisory Commission. She serves as a member of the Charles Stark Draper Laboratory Corporation, and the National Research Council Advisory Council for Policy and Global Affairs. She is an ACM Fellow, an IEEE Fellow, the author of over 40 papers and two books. Research Jones' interests focus on the design and construction of programmed systems. She has designed protection mechanisms and built secure systems that make guarantees about how information is used. She has built multi-processor operating systems and experimented with their underlying architectures and applications. By choice, she implements realistic and substantial systems to test design and implementation hypotheses so as to ensure that systems perform functionally and cost-effectively. Her current focus is survivable information systems, and interactive, distributed computer simulation for training, analysis, and entertainment. Awards Philip Hauge Abelson Award 2012 IEEE Founders Award 2007 Augusta Ada Lovelace Award 2004 Computing Research Association Service Award 1997 Air Force Meritorious Civilian Service Award Department of Defense Award for Distinguished Public Service Research Interests Design and construction of programmed systems Multi-processor operating systems Survivable information systems, and interactive, distributed computer simulation for training, analysis, and entertainment. Selected Publications Foundations of Secure Computation, Academic Press, 1978 Richard De Millo, Richard J. Lipton, Anita Jones and David Dobkin Communications of the ACM, Vol. 21, No. 5, May 1978, pp. 358-367. Barbara Liskov and Anita Jones Contact Information Anita Jones Computer Science Rice Hall P.O. Box 400740 Charlottesville, Virginia 22904 Phone: 434.982.2200 Jones@virginia.edu
