Madhav Marathe Professor, Computer ScienceDivision Director, Network, Simulation Science and Advanced Computing Division, Biocomplexity Institute Bio BTech. Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Chennai, 1989Ph.D. Computer Science, University at Albany-SUNY, 1994 "Our research focus is to understand general principles that govern the design, analysis, control, and optimization of complex networks. We take a team science approach and develop innovative solutions that have societal impact. " Madhav Marathe is a Division Director of the Computing, Simulations and Network Science Division at the Biocomplexity Institute and a Professor of Computer Science. From January 2005-September 2018, he was a Professor of Computer Science at Virginia Tech. Concurrently, at Virginia Tech, he was the Deputy Director (2005-2014) and then the Director (2014-2018) of the Network Dynamics and Simulation Science Laboratory at the Biocomplexity Institute of Virginia Tech. He obtained his Bachelor of Technology degree in 1989 in Computer Science and Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, and his Ph.D. in 1994 in Computer Science from the University at Albany -SUNY, under the supervision of Professors Harry B. Hunt III and Richard E. Stearns. Before coming to Virginia Tech in 2005, he worked in the Basic and Applied Simulation Science group (CCS-5) in the Computer and Computational Sciences division at Los Alamos National Laboratory where he was team leader in a theory-based, advanced simulation program to represent, design, and analyze extremely large socio-technical and critical infrastructure systems. He holds adjunct appointments at the Chalmers University and the Indian Institute of Public Health. He has published more than 300 research articles in peer reviewed journals, conference proceedings, and books, and has over 20 years of experience in project leadership and technology development. He was the 2011 Inaugural George Michael Distinguished Scholar at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. In 2014 he became an Association of Computing Machinery (ACM) Fellow for contributions to high performance computing algorithms and software environments for simulating and analyzing socio-technical network science. Also in 2013, he was named an Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) Fellow for contributions to socio-technical network science. In 2014, he was named an AmericanAssociation for Advancement of Science (AAAS) Fellow for contributions to high performance computing algorithms and software environments. In 2018 he was named a Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) Fellow for contributions to high performance computing algorithms and software systems for network science and public health epidemiology. That same year he was awarded the Virginia Tech College of Engineering Deans Award for Excellence in Research. Awards Fellow, Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) for contributions to high performance computing algorithms and software systems for network science and public health epidemiology 2018 Deans Award for Excellence in Research, College of Engineering, Virginia Tech 2018 National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center NERSC Award (joint with A Bhatele, J Yeom, N Jain, C Kuhlman, Y Livnat, K Bisset, L Kale) for innovative use of HPC that led to scalable mapping of epidemic simulations on NERSC machines 2017 Constellation Groups Supernova Award presented to NDSSL in the category of Data to Decisions for work by the group on developing high performance computing solutions to support national disaster management 2016 Fellow, American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) for contributions to high performance computing and network science 2015 Fellow, Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) for contribution to high performance computing algorithms and software environments for simulating and analyzing socio-technical systems 2014 Fellow, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) for contributions to socio-technical network science 2013 Inaugural George Michael Distinguished Scholar, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory 2011-12 Award for Research Excellence, Virginia Bioinformatics Institute, Virginia Tech 2010 Distinguished Alumni Award, University at Albany 2004 Technical Achievement Award, Los Alamos National Laboratory 2004 Distinguished Copyright Award for TRANSIMS Software System 2000 Research Interests Network Science, specifically, Biological, Social, Information, and Communication Networks High-performance computing Artificial Intelligence, specifically, machine learning, multi-agent systems, satisfiability Data Analytics Modeling and Simulation Developing innovative computing technologies for reliable, secure and sustainable socially coupled systems Theoretical Computer Science Computational Epidemiology Computational Social Science Computational Immunology In the News An analytics engine for personalized emergency response. An analytics engine for personalized emergency response. S. Kanowitz, Government Computer News (May 15, 2018) Ever wonder what you should do immediately after a terrorist attack? Analytics can tell you. Read More Waldrop M (2017) News Feature: Special agents offer modeling upgrade Waldrop M (2017) News Feature: Special agents offer modeling upgrade Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 114(28):7176-7179. After playing a key role in the fight against Ebola, agent-based models are poised to help decision-makers tackle other disease outbreaks, economic turbulence, and more. Read More Free Agents: Monumentally complex models are gaming out disaster scenarios with millions of simulated people Free Agents: Monumentally complex models are gaming out disaster scenarios with millions of simulated people M. Mitchell Waldrop, 2018; Science, 360(6385):144-147. At 11:15 on a Monday morning in May, an ordinary looking delivery van rolls into the intersection of 16th and K streets NW in downtown Washington, D.C., just a few blocks north of the White House. Inside, suicide bombers trip a switch. Read More 448: Dr. Madhav Marathe: Using Technology to Investigate the Inner Workings of Large Networks 448: Dr. Madhav Marathe: Using Technology to Investigate the Inner Workings of Large Networks People Behind the Science Podcast, McNeely M (May 7, 2018) Madhav and his team are working to understand how networks are formed, how they grow, how they change, how they can be used to solve problems, and how to make them more resilient. Read More Selected Publications Formal language constrained path problems, SIAM Journal of Computing, 2001, 30(3):809-837. Barrett C, Jacob R, Marathe M Modelling disease outbreaks in realistic urban social networks. Nature, 2004, 429(6988):180-184. Eubank S, Guclu H, Vullikanti A, Marathe M, Srinivasan A, Toroczkai Z, Wang N Complexity of reachability problems for finite discrete dynamical systems. Journal of Computer and Systems Sciences, 2006, 72(8):1317-1345. Barrett C, Hunt III HB, Marathe M, Ravi SS, Rosenkrantz D, Stearns R INDEMICS: An Interactive High-Performance Computing Framework for Data Intensive Epidemic Modeling. ACM Transactions on Modeling and Computer Simulation (TOMACS), 2014, 24(1):4:1-4:32. Bisset K, Chen J, Deodhar S, Feng X, Ma Y, Marathe M Algorithmic aspects of capacity in wireless networks. Proceedings of the 2005 ACM SIGMETRICS International Conference on Measurements and Modeling of Computer Systems, 2005, 33(1):133-144. Vullikanti A, Marathe M, Parthasarathy S, Srinivasan A Google Scholar Contact Information Madhav Marathe Computer Science Rice 526 Biocomplexity Lab - TBD mvm7hz@virginia.edu
