Worthy Martin Associate Professor of Computer ScienceActing Director, Institute for Advanced Technology in the Humanities Bio B.S. University of Texas-Austin, 1972M.S. University of Texas-Austin, 1976Ph.D. University of Texas-Austin, 1981 "Most recently my work in "digital humanities" has made accessible information: primary sources and interpretative materials on a wide range of topics." Worthy Martin, Associate Professor of Computer Science I began my career in "dynamic scene analysis", a subarea of computer vision and image processing. In the last several years I have been associated with "digital humanities" scholars at UVa and elsewhere in a wide variety of projects in archaeology, literary studies, history, endangered languages, Tibetan studies, architecture, art history, religious studies and media studies. Research Interests Human Machine Interface Computer Graphics and Vision Selected Publications Analyzing Evolving Social Structures, Digital Humanities, Krakow, Poland, July 12-16, 2016. Hott, J.R., W.N. Martin and K. Flake Warp and Weft on the Loom of Lat/Long, chapter in Deep maps and Spatial Narratives, D.J. Bodenhamer, J. Corrigan and T.M. Harris, eds., Indiana University Press, Bloomington, Indiana, 2015, pp. 203-222. W.N. Martin "Visualizing and Analyzing Identity Classes in Evolving Social Structures," Digital Humanities and Computer Science, University of Chicago, November 12-13, 2015. Hott, J., W.N. Martin and K. Flake "Digital Yoknapatawpha: Interpreting a Palimpsest of Place," Digital Humanities, Lausanne, Switzerland, July 7-12, 2014. Dye, D.J., J.B. Napolin, E. Cornell, and W.N. Martin Legacy Data, Digital Archives, and New Directions for Chaco Canyon Archaeology, Society of American Archaeology National Conference, April 2012. Martin, W.N., A. Holeman, C. Heitman, A. Watson, and , S.E. Plog Contact Information Worthy Martin Computer Science, Institute for Advanced Technology in the Humanities Office: Rice Hall, 013 Lab: Alderman 319 P.O. Box 400740 Charlottesville, Virginia 22904 Phone: 434-982-2202 martin@virginia.edu My Links Institute for Advanced Technology in the Humanities Chaco Research Archive Collective Biographies of Women Leonardo da Vinci and his Treatise on Painting Arapesh Grammar and Digital Language Archive Voting Viva Voce Jeffersons University Inhabiting Byzantine Athens Soundscape The World of Dante Uncle Tom's Cabin & American Culture
