Sang Son Emeritus Professor of Computer Science Bio Ph.D., Computer Science, University of Maryland, 1986M.S., Computer Science, University of Maryland, 1984M.S., Electrical Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science, 1978B.S., Electronics Engineering, Seoul National University, 1976 Sang Hyuk Son is IEEE Fellow and Department Chair of Information and Communication Engineering at DGIST. He has been a Professor of Computer Science Department at the University of Virginia, and WCU Chair Professor at Sogang University. He received the B.S. degree in electronics engineering from Seoul National University, M.S. degree from KAIST, and the Ph.D. in computer science from University of Maryland, College Park. He has been a Visiting Professor at KAIST, City University of Hong Kong, Ecole Centrale de Lille in France, and Linkoping University and University of Skovde in Sweden. Prof. Son has served as the chair of the IEEE Technical Committee on Real-Time Systems during 2007-2008. He is serving as an Associate Editor for Real-Time Systems Journal and Journal of Computing Science and Engineering, and has served on the editorial board of IEEE Transactions on Computers and IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems. He is also serving as a member of the steering committee for RTCSA, Cyber physical Systems Week, and SEUS. He received the Outstanding Contribution Award form ACM/IEEE Cyber Physical Systems Week in 2012. His research interests include cyber physical systems, real-time and embedded systems, database and data services, and wireless sensor networks. He has written or co-authored over 290 papers and edited/authored four books in these areas. His research has been funded by National Science Foundation, DARPA, Office of Naval Research, Department of Energy, National Security Agency, IBM, and National Research Foundation of Korea. Awards IEEE Fellow January 2013 Outstanding Contribution Award, ACM/IEEE CPS Week April 2012 Outstanding Service Award, KOCSEA December 2012 IEEE Service Award, IEEE TCRTS December 2009 Outstanding Contribution Award, IEEE RTCSA 2004 Research Interests Real-time computing database and data services QoS management wireless sensor networks information security Contact Information Sang Son Computer Science son@cs.virginia.edu My Links Website
