John A. Stankovic BP America ProfessorDirector, Link Lab Bio BSEE Brown University, 1970M.S. Computer Science, Brown University, 1975Ph.D. Computer Science, Brown University, 1979 "Our main work is creating technology for healthcare, especially for the elderly. Using smart homes, phones, wearables, and in-situ sensors, our technology is applied to patients with dementia, depression, epilepsy and obesity. We are also performing research for smart cities of the future. In particular, this work focuses on improving services and ensuring safety of smart cities." John A. Stankovic, BP America Professor Professor John A. Stankovic is the BP America Professor in the Computer Science Department at the University of Virginia. He has been awarded an Honorary Doctorate from the University of York for his work in real-time systems. He won the IEEE Real-Time Systems Technical Committee's Award for Outstanding Technical Contributions and Leadership. He also won the IEEE Technical Committee on Distributed Processing Distinguished Achievement Award (inaugural winner). He has seven Best Paper awards. He also has two Best Paper Runner Up Awards. He has also been a finalist for multiple other Best Paper Awards. Stankovic has an h-index of 115 and over 52,500 citations. In 2015 he was awarded the Univ. of Virginia Distinguished Scientist Award, and in 2010 the School of Engineerings Distinguished Faculty Award. He also received a Distinguished Faculty Award from the University of Massachusetts. He has given more than 40 Keynote talks at conferences and many Distinguished Lectures at major Universities He was the Editor-in-Chief for the IEEE Transactions on Distributed and Parallel Systems and was founder and co-editor-in-chief for the Real-Time Systems Journal. Awards Life Fellow of the IEEE (for research contributions in distributed and real-time computing) 1994 Fellow of the ACM 1996 Honorary Doctorate, University of York, U.K. 2015 University of Virginia Distinguished Scientist Award August 2015 School of Engineering Distinguished Faculty Award, Univ. of Virginia Sept. 2010 Outstanding Scholar Award - School of Engineering, University of Massachusetts 1983 IEEE Award for Outstanding Technical Contributions and Leadership in Real-TimeSystems - TC on Real-Time Systems December 2000 IEEE TC on Distributed Processing Annual Distinguished Achievement Award, inaugural winner. June 2006 Seven Best Paper Awards. Seven Best Paper Runner Up Awards. Microsoft Academic Search: citation by area - highest rated person in real-time and embedded systems. Spring Scheduling Co-Processor Designs Won First and Second Place in MCC VLSI Design Contest 1993 PhD thesis published as a book as part of a series of the best PhD theses in CompSci. Research Interests Internet of Things Wireless Health Smart Buildings/Cities Embedded Systems In the News UVA Engineering's Link Lab Represents Future for Cyber-Physical Systems Research and Education UVA Engineering's Link Lab Represents Future for Cyber-Physical Systems Research and Education Link Lab Focuses on Autonomous Systems, Smart Cities and Smart Health Soon, roadways will be filled with driverless vehicles. Robots will help all surgeons operate more precisely and safely. Homes will sense how their occupants want to live, and... Read More Selected Publications AsthmaGuide: An Asthma Monitoring and Advice Ecosystem, Wireless Health, nominated for best paper, Oct. 2016. H. Ra, A. Salekin, H. Yoon, J. Kim, S. Nirjon, D. Stone, S. Kim, J. Lee, S. Son, and J. Stankovic CityGuard: A Watchdog for Safety-Aware Conflict Detection and Resolution in Smart Cities, IOTDI, April 2017, April 2017. M. Ma, S. Preum, and J. Stankovic PreCluDe: Conflict Detection in Textual Health Advice, Percom 2017, March 2017. S. Preum, A. Mondol, M. Ma, H.Wang, and J. Stankovic t-kernel: Providing Reliable OS Support to Wireless Sensor Networks, ACM SenSys, acceptance rate 19%, Best Paper Award, Nov. 2006. L. Gu and J. Stankovic Abdelzaher, Range-Free Localization Schemes for Large Scale Sensor Networks, Mobicom, September 2003. (acceptance rate 9%). T. He, C. Huang, B. Blum, J. Stankovic, T. Google Scholar Courses Taught Cyber Physical Systems Smart Homes, Phones, Watches and Beyond Computer Architecture Contact Information John A. Stankovic Computer Science Office: Olsson 247 Lab: Rice 540 P.O. Box 400740 Charlottesville, Virginia 22904 Phone: 434-982-2275 Fax: Fax: 434-982-2214 stankovic@cs.virginia.edu Research Summary My Links Website Link Lab
