Kevin Sullivan Associate Professor, Computer Science Bio B.S. Tufts University, 1987 M.S. University of Washington, 1990Ph.D. University of Washington, 1994 "I aim to catalyze a self-regenerative transformation of critical sectors of our society into far better performing cyber-social learning systems." Kevin Sullivan, Associate Professor Kevin Sullivan obtained his background in computer science from Tufts University (1987), working most closely with David Krumme, and in graduate school at the University of Washington, working with David Notkin (MS, 1994, PhD, 1994). Kevin's graduate work set him to thinking about the evolvability, and actual evolution, of software as its most important sources of value, but as a property that is also astonishing hard to achieve and maintain in a medium that is understood by its very name to be "soft." Kevin joined UVa as Assistant Professor of Computer Science in 1994 and has worked at UVa since then. He has worked in areas including software evolvability (including notions of the options value of modularity in design and how to reconcile the modularity-breaking potential of aspect-oriented programming with the need for abstraction and information hiding modularity to preserve evolvability properties); in value-based software engineering (seeking to better understand how to link software design to broader economic objectives, rather than from merely technical notions of design excellence), and on formal methods for software and systems assurance (including modest recently his work with John Knight and Jian Xiang on rela-world types and interpreted formalisms). One of Kevin's current areas of work is in the establishment of a discipline of cyber-social learning systems, drawing together knowledge from a diversity of areas to inform the design of 21st century service systems: in healthcare, education, defense, and many other sectors of society. Research Interests Human Factors Cybersecurity Human Machine Interface Software Engineering Programming Languages and Compilers Selected Publications Toward an Information Infrastructure for Global Health Improvement, IMIA Yearbook, 2017 ABS CP Friedman, JC Rubin, KJ Sullivan Is My Software Consistent with the Real World? High Assurance Systems Engineering (HASE), 2017 J Xiang, J Knight, K Sullivan Ultra-large-scale systems: The software challenge of the future, Software Engineering Institute, 2006. ABS Northrop, Linda ; Feiler, Peter ; Gabriel, Richard P ; Goodenough, John ; Linger, Rick ; Longstaff, Tom ; Kazman, Rick ; Klein, Mark ; Douglas Schmidt, ; Sullivan, Kevin ; Wallnau, Kurt The structure and value of modularity in software design, ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes, 2001 KJ Sullivan, WG Griswold, Y Cai, B Hallen Software design as an investment activity: a real options perspective, Real options and business strategy, Risk Books, 1999. ABS KJ Sullivan, P Chalasani, S Jha, V Sazawal Software reflexion models: Bridging the gap between source and high-level models, ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes, 1995. ABS GC Murphy, D Notkin, K Sullivan Contact Information Kevin Sullivan Computer Science Office: Rice 508 PO Box 400740 Charlottesville, Virginia 22904 Phone: 434-982-2206 Fax: Fax: 434-982-2214 sullivan@virginia.edu Research Summary My Links Website
