 Drew Davidson Assistant Professor, University of Kansas EECS Contact / Pointers About News Publications CV (pdf) Contact / Pointers Email: drewdavidson@ku.edu Google Scholar: (link) About I am a computer scientist broadly focused on security and privacy. I'm currently working on automatic security policy generation for web applications and privilege separation for modern server architectures. News August 2018 I'm teaching two courses this semester: EECS 665: Compiler Construction and EECS 700: Mobile Secuirty August 2018 I'm honored and humbled to annouce that I'm joining the faculty at the University of Kansas in the department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science as an Assistant Professor. October 2017 Our paper, Enhancing Android Security through App Splitting , to appear at SECURECOMM 2017. September 2017 Our paper, Cimplifier: Automatically Debloating Containers , to appear at FSE 2017. April 2017 Our paper, Secure Integration of Web Content and Applications on Commodity Mobile Operating Systems , to appear at AsiaCCS 2017. June 2017 Tala Security has received an NSF SBIR Phase I award for our proposal Automated Security for the DevOps World . We are very grateful to the National Science Foundation for their support. December 2016 I've successfully completed my dissertation, Enhancing Mobile Security through App Splitting . Thanks to my advisor Somesh Jha, and my PhD committee: Thomas Reps, Aws Albarghouthi, Mihai Christodorescu, and Xinyu Zhang. August 2016 I am co-founding a computer security start-up, Tala Security. Joining me are my former advisor Somesh Jha, and industry veterans Sanjay Sawhney, Aanand Krishnan, and Swapnil Bhalode. Publications Drew Davidson, Vaibhav Rastogi, and Somesh Jha. Enhancing Android Security through App Splitting. In EAI International Conference on Security and Privacy in Communication Networks (SecureComm) , 2017. Vaibhav Rastogi and Drew Davidson and Lorenzo De Carli and Somesh Jha and Patrick McDaniel. Cimplifier: Automatically Debloating Containers. In Joint Meeting of the European Software Engineering Conference and the ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering (ESEC/FSE) , 2017. Drew Davidson, Yaohui Chen, Franklin George, Long Lu, and Somesh Jha. Secure Integration of Web Content and Applications on Commodity Operating Systems. In ACM Asia Conference on Computer and Communications Security (ASIACCS) , 2017. Drew Davidson, Hao Wu, Robert Jellinek, Thomas Ristenpart, and Vikas Singh. Controlling UAVs with Sensor Input Spoofing Attacks. In USENIX Workshop on Offensive Technologies (WOOT) , 2016. Drew Davidson, Matt Fredrikson, and Ben Livshits. MoRePriv: Mobile OS Support for Application Personalization and Privacy. In Annual Computer Security Applications Conference (ACSAC) , 2014. Drew Davidson, Benjamin Moench, Thomas Ristenpart, and Somesh Jha. FiE on Firmware. In USENIX Security Symposium , 2013. Matt Fredrikson, Drew Davidson, Ben Livshits, and Somesh Jha. Towards Enforceable Data-Driven Privacy Policies. In Workshop on Web 2.0 Security and Privacy (W2SP) , 2011. Roberto Paleari, Lorenzo Martignoni, Emanuele Passerini, Drew Davidson, Matt Fredrikson, Jon Giffin, and Somesh Jha. Automatic Generation of Remediation Procedures for Malware Infections. In USENIX Security Symposium , 2010. Drew Davidson, Randy Smith, Nic Doyle, and Somesh Jha. Protocol Normalization Using Attribute Grammars. In European Symposium on Research in Computer Security (ESORICS) , 2009. 
