 Bo Luo Ph.D., The Pennsylvania State University, 2008 Associate Professor Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Information and Telecommunication Technology Center The University of Kansas Home Publications Teaching Links Research Group Contact info Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS) 2044 Eaton Hall, 1520 West 15th St, Lawrence KS, 66045 Information and Telecommunication Technology Center (ITTC) 341 Nichols Hall, 2335 Irving Hill Road, Lawrence, KS 66045 phone: 785-864-7749; email: bluo <at> ku <dot> edu My PGP public key My not-so-updated vita Research My current research interests lie in the intersection of security and privacy and data science . In particular, I'm interested in: Information security and privacy, database security Smart grid and IoT/CPS security Information retrieval, Web and online social networks I am the PI of Jayhawk SFS -- CyberCorps: Scholarship for Service program at KU. For more information about the program, please visit Jayhawk SFS program homepage . ITTC is a National Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance Education (CAE/IAE) designated by the National Security Agency and Department of Homeland Security. Information Assurance Lab (IAL) : IALab Wiki InfoSec Group Seminar Data Science Seminar KU has hosted The 3rd KanSec: Greater Kansas Area Security Workshop , and The 6th Central Area Networking and Security Workshop . Education The Pennsylvania State University , University Park, Pennsylvania Ph.D., Information Sciences and Technology, August, 2008. Advisor: Dr. Dongwon Lee The Chinese University of Hong Kong , Shatin, N.T. Hong Kong M.Phil., Information Engineering, December, 2003 Advisor: Dr. Xiaoou Tang University of Sciences and Technology of China , Hefei, Anhui, P.R.China B.E., Electronic and Information Engineering, July, 2001 Advisor: Dr. Nenghai Yu Word cloud These are two Wordle "word clouds" generated from abstracts of my papers -- (left): papers before 2012; (right): papers from 2012 to 2017. 
