 CReSIS Signal and Data Processing Group CReSIS Signal and Data Processing Group 2018 (missing Jilu Li and Manjish Adhikari). The Center for Remote Sensing of Ice Sheets (CReSIS) Signal and Data Processing Group focuses on research for new processing algorithms as well as designing, developing, and operating processing pipelines for radar data collected by the research center. We have an opening for a graduate research assistant in signal and image processing starting in fall 2018 (through fall 2022 at least). If you are interested in graduate work in the areas of array, radar, or image processing, please let us know. Faculty and Staff: John Paden Associate Scientist Courtesy appointment with Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department Nichols Hall , Room 325 2335 Irving Hill Rd Lawrence, KS 66045 785-864-1692 My research focuses on HF to Ka-band signal/data processing and radar system engineering for remote sensing of terrestrial snow and ice (non-atmospheric). Direction of arrival estimation applied to SAR (SAR tomography) and optimization, machine learning and image processing applied to radar imaging are my current areas of interest in this field. [ Dissertation | Resume | Google Scholar | Research Gate ] Jilu Li Assistant Research Professor Courtesy appointment with Electrical Engineering and Computer Science department Nichols Hall , Room 326 2335 Irving Hill Rd Lawrence, KS 66045 785-864-1692 Students: Anjali Devanand Pare CS BS Brandon Randolph EE BS Gordon Ariho EE PhD Hara Talasila EE PhD Ibikunle Oluwanisola EE PhD Jordan Sprick EE MS Mohanad Ahmed Abdulkareem Al-Ibadi EE PhD Manjish Adhikari EE MS Rohan Choudhari CS BS Victor Luiz Berger Pereira Da Silva CS MS Previous Students: CReSIS Signal and Data Processing Group 2017. Abbey Whisler (Pope) Geo BS: Garmin Aqsa Patel EE PhD 2016: Research Engineer at GE Global Research Center in Niskayuna, NY Aric Beaver EE BS: On Semiconductor Brady Maasen EE BS: On Semiconductor Haiji Wang EE BS: Rice University MS Hara Talasila EE MS 2017 Isaac Tan EE PhD: Eaton - Lighting James Coll Geo MS Joe Lilek Geo BS: American Geosciences Institute in Virginia Julia Guard Geo BS Kelly Rodriguez EE BS Kyle Purdon Geo MS: Bitly Logan Smith EE MS 2014 Onobeoghene Emmanuel Oghenekaro EE BS Sahana Raghunandan EE MS 2013 Sam Buchanan EE BS: Columbia University PhD Santosh Malyala EE MS 2017 Sean Holloway EE BS: Columbia University MS Shane Kuei-Hsien Chu CS BS 2018 Solomon Shiferaw Abera EE BS Sravya Athinarapu EE MS 2018: Hardware Development Engineer at Optimum Semiconductor Technologies Inc. Steven Foga EE BS: Geospatial Developer Polar Geospatial Center Theresa Stumpf EE MS 2015: JH APL Trey Stafford Geo BS: NSIDC Weibo Liu Geo PhD: Geography faculty Florida Atlantic University Yi Zhu EE MS 2014 Projects CReSIS Radar Data Processing Pipeline: We have collected about 1 PB of data as of 2016 and are adding about 100 TB per year. There are four radar sensors, each configurable and being updated periodically. The code is primarily written in Matlab and C. The pipeline is driven by parameter spreadsheets that allow large batches of jobs to be scheduled in a single shot. We use a custom Torque Scheduler interface on three clusters (128 core, 1840 core, and remote-field-configurable cluster 32-96 core) for most of the processing. The system includes support for stepped-chirped, deramp on receive, and regular directly sampled radars. The pipeline includes GPS alignment, metadata tracking, pulse compression, deconvolution, RFI suppression, SAR processing, and space-time array processing. We are using and developing this toolbox and data in collaboration with: Alfred Wegener Institute University of Washington Applied Physics Laboratory Stanford University Radio Glaciology Indiana University at Bloomington and SPIDAL University of Columbia Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory , University of Copenhagen Center for Ice and Climate Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi Links to use data and software: Toolbox: CReSIS Software Radar Data: CReSIS Data Website Field work and data processing for NSF projects and NASA Operation IceBridge Multichannel Coherent Radar Depth Sounder (MCoRDS), Snow Radar, Ku-band Altimeter, and Accumulation Radar on a variety of aircraft including CReSIS built UAVs as well as some ground based radar work. SAR Active Target and Multistatic Receiver for ultra wideband radar system: to be used for array and radiometric calibration and as portable radar system. Interested in hiring student with strong Verilog and C++ experience. Tomography/interferometry/3D imaging We have three projects, SPIDAL , Operation IceBridge , and Stability and Dynamics of Antarctic Marine Outlet Glaciers , working on 3D imaging. We will also have an NSF Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU) award available for most summers on this project. Please contact me if you are an undergraduate student interested in applying for this opportunity. Only US Citizens and permanent residence may participate. Ice sheet basal conditions (studying properties of radar scattering signal) NASA New Investigator Project. Global Hawk Snow Thickness Estimation Radar This is a project to develop a 2-18 GHz FMCW radar for the NASA Global Hawk UAVs. The first planned deployment is on the NASA P-3 during the Spring 2017 OIB campaign. Geographic information system for CReSIS radar data Actively working on the Open Polar Server which is an open source system for storing sounding radar data that is hosted on Github. Internal layer SAR processor We are working on this as part of SPIDAL . Ice sheet dielectrics and geophysical parameters (interest in CMP measurements and other methods for recovering geophysical properties of the ice) We are collaborating with several external groups on this work. Ku-band altimetry and interpretation of satellite altimeter data We are working on a proposal to continue previous work on this. Thickness and other properties of snow on sea and land ice We are working on this as part of NASA Operation IceBridge From an old friend Pannirselvam Kanagaratnam: ON THIS DAY "Mend a quarrel. Search out a forgotten friend. Dismiss suspicion and replace it with trust. Share some treasure. Give a soft answer. Encourage youth. Manifest your loyalty in a word or deed. Keep a promise. Find the time. Forego a grudge. Forgive an enemy. Listen. Apologize if you were wrong. Try to understand. Flout envy. Examine your demands on others. Think first of someone else. Appreciate, be kind, be gentle. Laugh a little more. OM OM OM" Sri Swami Chidanandaji Maharaj 
