Nanyang Technological University Home Education Employment History Media Coverage & Showcases Awards and Honors Professional Activities Research Team Publications and Patents Acknowledgement Databases & Codes Videos On-line Courses Adams Wai Kin Kong Associate Professor School of Science and Computer Engineering Nanyang Technological University Nanyang Avenue, Singapore, 639798 Office: N4-02a-017 Tel: 65-6513-8041 Fax: 65-6792-6559 E-mails: adamskong AT ntu.edu.sg / adamskong AT ieee.org Biography Dr. Adams Wai Kin Kong received the Ph.D. degree from the University of Waterloo, Canada. Currently, he is an associate professor at the Nanyang Technological University, Singapore . His papers have been published in TPAMI, TIP, TIFS, TSMC, TCSVT, CVPR and Pattern Recognition. One of his papers was selected as a spotlight paper by TPAMI and another one was selected as Honorable Mention by Pattern Recognition. With his students, he received Honeywell Best Student Paper Award in The IEEE Fifth International Conference on Biometrics: Theory, Applications and Systems (BTAS) , 2012. He received the best reviewer award from BTAS 2016. In the summer of 2008, he served as an expert witness to the U.S. Department of Justice for the c hild sexual abuse case , United States v, Michael Pepe . He also serves as a consultant for other legal cases in Singapore and as an associate editor for TIFS. He has developed seven patents; four of his patents have been approved, and the others have been filed. His research interests include biometrics, forensics, image processing and pattern recognition. What's New Want to study PhD at NTU / Look for research positions. Please click . Shitala Prasad and Adams Kong, "Using Object Information for Spotting Text", ECCV 2018 Yi Huang, Adams Kong and Kwok Yan Lam, "From the Perceptive of CNN to Adversarial Iris Image", BTAS 2018 Yanzhu Liu, Adams Kong and Chi Keong Goh, " A constrained deep neural network for ordinal regression ", CVPR 2018 Peicong Yu and Adams Kong, "A metra-recognition based skin marks matching algorithm with feature fusion for forensic identification", ICB 2018 Joseph Toh, Suman Bhoi, Sai Yee Chuah, Anjali Jhingan, Adams Kong, Steven Thng, " Automated Scoring of Vitiligo Using Superpixel-Generated Computerized Digital Image Analysis of Clinical Photographs: A Novel and Consistent Way to Score Vitiligo ", British Journal of Dermatology, 2018
