 Antonio Barbalace Assistant Professor Department of Computer Science Schaefer School of Engineering & Science Stevens Institute of Technology 304 North Building Hoboken, NJ 07030 abarbala@stevens.edu phone: +1 (201) 216-5502 I am Antonio Barbalace, Assistant Professor with the Department of Computer Science in the Schaefer School of Engineering & Science , Stevens Institute of Technology . My research focuses on system software . Specifically, operating systems (Linux, DragonFlyBSD, Darwin, L4), virtualization environments (QEMU, QEMU/KVM, and Xen), and run-times/compilers/linkers (LLVM, gcc, ld, gold) for parallel, distributed and heterogeneous computer architectures (including near data processing platforms). My interests include general-purpose and real-time scheduling, synchronization protocols, distributed algorithms, networking, and storage systems. Performance analysis is my favorite way of investigation using tracing or simulation tools. Lately, I am investigating power efficiency, fault-tolerance, and security. I am also interested in industrial control systems, signal and image processing. I am looking for talented (BS, MS, PhD) students to join my group at Stevens! If you like to hack system and application code write me an email or stop by my office! Education and Experience Before moving to Stevens, I was a Principal Research Scientist and Manager at the Germen Research Center of Huawei in Munich, working within the OS and Virtualization team of the IT Software Infrastructure Lab (director Dr. Goetz Brasche). There, I started the work on the NDP Operating System, some real-time projects, and established a new microkernel hypervisor to be formally verified. Prior to the German Research Center, I spent 5 years as a Research Assistant Professor, and before a postdoc, at the Systems Software Research Group of ECE Virginia Tech, working closely with my mentor and supervisor Prof. Binoy Ravindran. At VT, I started with Prof. Ravindran the family of Popcorn projects (Linux, Xen, LLVM) which looked at how to manage hardware heterogeneity. At VT I also worked on other real-time and hypervisor projects -- financed mainly by ONR and ASFOR. Before moving to Virginia in November 2011, I was a Research Staff Member at the Italian National Research Council ( CNR ) in Padova, Italy, working at the big physics experiment RFX . I graduated with my PhD at the end of 2010 from the University of Padova under the supervision of Professors Giuseppe Zollino, Adriano Luchetta and Gabriele Manduchi. Linkedin Profile Publications Google Scholar Profile Microsoft Academic Profile DBLP Current Projects PipeOS (More info to come) AIsched (More info to come) Past Projects Near data processing OS (Virginia Tech) Popcorn Linux and Compiler Framework (Virginia Tech) Popcorn Xen (Virginia Tech) Fault Tolerant Linux (FT-Popcorn) (Virginia Tech) cthread (Virginia Tech) linuxmf-emu (Virginia Tech) KairosVM (Virginia Tech) ChronOS Linux (Virginia Tech) Resilire (Virginia Tech) Linux TM (University of Padova) SCHEDsimula, Scheduler Simulator (Euratom) BaseLib/MARTe, Multi Application Real Time executor (University of Padova) Linux/RTAI Live Distribution Contributed Projects MDSplus FreeRTOS UBOOT RTAI ADEOS Current Students --- Past Students Anthony Carno PhD, Emulation and DBT for anytime migration in Popcorn Linux OS Ho-Ren Chuang PhD, Shared-something in Popcorn Linux OS Christopher Jelesnianski PhD, Runtime/compiler/linker for heterogeneous platforms Rob Lyerly PhD, Scheduling in heterogeneous-ISA OS-capable and CPU-GPU platforms Yuzhong Wen MS, Replicated process execution on a replicated-kernel OS Xiaolong Wu PhD, Security through Heterogeneous Multivariant Execution Saif Ansary MS, CISCO Systems, San Jose, CA, US Sharath Bhat MEng, Intel Corporation, Denver, CO, US Michael Drescher MS, Zeta Associates, Fairfax, VA, US Peng Lu, Citibank, New York, New York, US David Katz MS, The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, MA, US Charlie Kendir BS, L3 Communication, Arlington, TX, US Enrico Marini MS, Reply SpA, Padova, Italy Andy Martin BS, Qualcomm, NC, US Akshay Ravichandran MS, Huge Network, WDC, US Ajithchandra Saya MEng, Intel Corporation, Austin, TX, US Ben Shelton MS, Intel Corporation, Austin, TX, US Updated on October 1 st 2018 
