 Brian's Project Gallery A Collection of Software, Photography, and Music Home Page Software Projects Photography Music Guestbook Personal Profile Full name: Brian Scott Borowski Birthday: February 26, 1979 Favorite foods: Pizza, sushi Advice: Expect nothing, appreciate everything. Email: brian_borowski AT yahoo DOT com Technical Rsum Music Rsum News Sep. 1, 2012 - Check out my new Connect Four Java applet. Jun. 22, 2010 - I successfully defended my dissertation entitled Application of Channel Estimation to Underwater Acoustic Communication . You can download the dissertation and slides . Sep. 5, 2009 - I posted some of my organ recordings in the music section. Please check them out. Jul. 10, 2009 - Source code for Truth Table Constructor is now available. I also added a short piece for keyboard in the music section. Nov. 21, 2008 - After nearly a decade, I finally redesigned the whole site! It now uses XHTML 1.1 with CSS. The design is simple, and it should be pretty easy to navigate. I migrated everything to the new layout except for Message Box Demo and Sound Demo , neither of which demonstrated anything useful. About this Site This web site has been running since 1999, when I created it for a course project. I honestly did not expect it to be in existence for so long. Though most of the projects featured here are horribly obsolete, Truth Table Constructor has become quite popular on the Web. It was completely redesigned in early 2006 so that it can generate large tables and export them to images or text files. As time permits, I have been updating my implementations with cleaner, more efficient code. Many of the projects are written in Java, an object-oriented (OO) programming language. In the early days of Java, developers primarily created applets for web pages, like the ones on display here. However, as Java matured, its role shifted from that of client-side applets to full-blown server-side enterprise applications. Some of the other projects make use of JavaScript for both logic and presentation. They serve as examples of how to create JavaScript objects and use JavaScript to create dynamic web pages. Mini Biography I am currently an assistant teaching professor of computer science at Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, NJ. I am teaching a variety of undergraduate courses, serving on the curriculum committee, and advising students on their courses of study. Before coming (or shall I say returning) to Stevens, I spent three years developing a full curriculum of computer science courses and teaching them to advanced high school students at Bergen County Academies in Hackensack, NJ. Prior to teaching, I was a technical specialist working on natural language processing at Thomson Reuters in New York City. In June 2010 I completed my doctoral studies at Stevens, where I researched underwater acoustic communication. I received my M.S. degree in computer science from Stevens in 2004 and my B.S. degree, also in computer science, from Seton Hall University in 2001. I gained experience as a software engineer while working for Prudential Financial , KPMG , and Syncsort . In my spare time, I enjoy writing software and playing the organ. Last modified on August 3, 2014. 1999-2014 Brian S. Borowski. All Rights Reserved. Valid XHTML and CSS . 
