 Dr. Gregg Vesonder INDUSTRY PROFESSOR AND DIRECTOR, RESEARCH, SYSTEMS AND SOFTWARE DIVISION * Building: Babbio Room: 504 Phone: 201.216.8107 Fax: 201.216.5541 Email: gvesonde@stevens.edu Education Ph.D. (Cognitive Psychology) - September, 1979 University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania M.S. (Cognitive Psychology) - September, 1977 University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania B.A. (Cognitive Psychology) - May, 1973 University of Notre Dame, South Bend, Indiana Research Software Engineering and System Development Cyber-Physical and Socio-Technical Systems Embedded Systems Human Computer Interaction Evolvability General Information Gregg Vesonder is an Industry Professor in Software Engineering and Cyber-Physical Systems at Stevens Institute of Technology. He also serves as an Adjunct Professor at the University of Pennsylvania in Computer and Information Science. Prior to this role he served as Executive Director of the Cloud Platforms Research Department at AT&T Labs Research. His Department at AT&T Labs Research focused both on Cloud Platforms and Mobile and Pervasive Systems. Vesonders career at AT&T spanned 35 years and a variety of roles. Over the years Vesonder led organizations in a variety of areas including parallel cluster computing, speech recognition and text to speech, sensor networks, C++ compiler development, Artificial Intelligence Software Development Environments, Logic Based Tools and Systems, and Expert Systems. Vesonders work on artificial intelligence led to Bell Labs first commercial expert system, ACE. He received a Bell Labs Fellow in 1990 for pioneering work in artificial intelligence applications and technology and outstanding contributions in enabling organizations throughout AT&T to realize benefits from this technology. He was later awarded an AT&T Fellow for this work. Vesonder also was involved with AT&Ts a2bmusic venture initially as Vice President, Research and Development and later as Chief Technology Officer. a2bmusic involved digital music distribution using audio compression software (AAC) and Digital Rights Management software both developed internally. His professional and research activities emphasize software, software engineering and the relationship of small systems (embedded, sensor based) to large scale systems particularly in Cyber-Physical and Socio-Technical domains. Vesonder also is interested in applying these techniques, learning by doing and social media to graduate and post graduate education and STEM for grade school and beyond. Dr. Vesonder has authored over 40 research papers. He is both a Bell Labs and an AT&T Fellow. He has and is serving on multiple program committees, was a member of the editorial board of the International Journal of Information Quality, and the International Journal of Computer Systems Science and Engineering. He was associate editor in charge of Telecommunications and Network Management of the journal, Intelligent Systems Review. He also served as a guest editor of the IEEE Communications Magazine. Enter information here Honors & Awards Bell Labs Fellow AT&T Fellow Navigator Award for excellence in on-line teaching, Stevens Institute of Technology, 2008 Professional Societies Member, IEEE Senior Member, ACM Patents & Inventions Inventors: Charles Blewett, Enrico Bocchieri, Giuseppe Di Fabbrizio, Donnie Henderson, Thomas Killian, Thomas Kirk, David Kormann, Gregory T. Vesonder; System and Method of Organizing Images. Granted Inventors: Robert Raymond Miller II, Gregory T. Vesonder; Collecting and Analyzing Data in a Distributed Sensor Network. Application Submitted Inventors: Matti Hiltunen, Robin Berthier, Michel Cukier, David Kormann, Daniel Sheleheda, Gregory T. Vesonder; Methods, Systems and Products for Estimating Answers to Questions. Granted Inventors: Tamparni Dasu, Gregg Vesonder, Jon R. Wright; Monitoring Complex Data Feeds Through Ensemble Testing. Granted Selected Publications Conference Proceedings Sobesto, B., Cukier, M., Hiltunen, M., Kormann, D., Vesonder, G., Berthier, R. (2011). "DarkNOC: Dashboard for honeypot management", LISA. Panta, R.K., Pelletier, J. A., and Vesonder G.T. (2012). "Efficient Asynchronous Low Power Listening for Wireless Sensor Networks", IEEE Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems. Journals Wright, J.R., Vesonder, G.T. and Dasu, T. (2007). "Management of Data for Large Scale Data Mining", In Al-Hakim (Ed.) Challenges of managing information quality in service, Idea Group Publishing. 136-153. Wright, J.R., Pelletier, J.A. Dasu, T. and Vesonder, G.T. (2007). "Information quality for network monitoring and analysis", IJIQ. Generic Vesonder G.T. (1988). Rule-based programming in the UNIX system, AT&T Technical Journal, 67 (1), 69-80. Dasu, T., Vesonder, G.T., and Wright, J.R. (2003). Data Quality through Knowledge Engineering, 705-710. Vesonder, G.T.. (2011). The effect of environmental dynamism on evolution and evolvability, . 
