Dr. Weichen Liu Home Teaching People Publication Research Service Dr. Weichen Liu Nanyang Assistant Professor School of Computer Science and Engineering Nanyang Technological University Singapore PhD, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology BEng and MEng, Harbin Institute of Technology, China Office: N4-02b-69b Email: liu@ntu.edu.sg put image of email address here Biography Dr. Weichen Liu is a Nanyang Assistant Professor at the School of Computer Science and Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore. Before that, he was a faculty member at Chongqing University, China. He received his PhD degree from the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, and the MEng and BEng degrees from Harbin Institute of Technology, China. Dr. Liu served as the chairs, technical program committee members, organizing committee members, and associate editors for over 20 premier international conferences and journals. He authored and co-authored more than 80 research papers in peer-reviewed journals, conferences and books, and received the best paper candidate awards from ASP-DAC 2016, CASES 2015, CODES+ISSS 2009, the best poster paper award from RTCSA 2017 and AMD-TFE 2010, and the most popular poster award from ASP-DAC 2017. His research is supported by the leading industrial partners including Intel, AMD, Xilinx, MediaTek, Huawei and HP. Research Interests Embedded and Real-Time Systems Many-Core Systems Electronic/Photonic Network-on-Chip Computer Architecture Honors & Awards Nanyang Assistant Professorship Award, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, 2018 A. Richard Newton Young Student Advisor Award, DAC, Austin, USA, 2017 Best Poster Paper Award, RTCSA, Taiwan, 2017 Most Popular Poster Award, SIGDA Student Research Forum at ASPDAC, Japan, 2017 Best Paper Candidate Award (ranked 1st in the track), ASP-DAC, Macau, 2016 Best Paper Candidate Award, CASES, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 2015 Best Paper Candidate Award, CODES+ISSS, Grenoble, France, 2009 Best Poster Award, AMD Technical Forum and Exhibition (AMD-TFE), Taiwan, 2010 100-Outstanding-Scholar Award, Chongqing University, China, 2013 Chongqing Outstanding Talents, Chongqing Government, China, 2014 MediaTek Inc. & Wu Ta-You Scholar Award, MediaTek Inc., Taiwan, 2005 Dr. Weichen Liu Updates I am looking for self-motivated students who have strong academic background and plan to pursue PhD/Master degree at NTU. Please send me your CV if interested! I am looking for postdoctoral fellows in the broad areas of electronic/photonic network-on-chip, many-core systems, scheduling, and embedded systems. Please feel free to drop me an email if interested! I am looking for exchange PhD students for 6-12 months visiting at NTU. Financial support is possible. Please feel free to drop me an email if interested! Dr. Weichen Liu All Rights Reserved 2019 Dr. Weichen Liu
