 Vira Chankong Associate Professor, Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Contact Information: Office Location: Olin 708 Phone Number: 216.368.4054 Email: vxc2@case.edu Education: B.S./B.E. with honor (1971), double degree: Electrical Engineering-Mathematics/Physics, University of New South Wales, Australia M.Eng (1974): Systems Engineering, Asian Institute of Technology, Thailand Ph.D. (1977): Systems Engineering, Case Western Reserve University Research and Publications Research Interests: Dr. Chankong's research interests are in the areas of large-scale optimization, multiobjective optimization, logic-based discrete optimization, and intelligent computing. He has published several papers in multiple objective optimization, large-scale optimization, systems methodology, and applications of decision theory, optimization and information technology to medical research and engineering design and operation problems. His current research focuses on application of systems concepts and systems tools to radiation treatment planning, signaling pathways and other systems biology problems. His special interests are in the development of specialized large-scale optimization algorithms for treatment planning of Gamma Knife radiosurgery and Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy, data mining, and supply chain management. Professor Chankong is a senior member of IEEE and IIE, and a member of SIAM and INFORMS. Recent Publications: V. Chankong and Y.Y. Haimes, Multiobjective Decision Making: Theory and Methodology , Dover Publications, New York, 2008 (first edition: Elsivier North Holland, New York, 1983) -- Book Kanchanaharuthai, V. Chankong, K. Loparo: Transient Stability and Voltage Regulation in Power Systems with Renewable Distributed Energy Resources, 2011 IEEE EnergyTech, Cleveland OH May 25-26, 2011 Small-Signal Stability Enhancement of Power Systems with Renewable Distributed Energy Resources, 18 th IFAC Congress, Milano, Italy, August 28-Sept 2, 2011 ( Preprint, in preparation for publication) Nonlinear Voltage Regulation of Power Systems with Renewable Distributed Energy Resources, in prepataion for publication, 2011 (in preparation for publication) B.F. Hobbs, S. Jitprapaikulsarn, S. Konda, V. Chankong, K. Loparo, D.J. Maratukalum, Analysis of the Value for Unit Commitment of Improved Load Forecasts , IEEE Trans. On Power Systems, vol. 14, No. 4, November 1999 Danthai Thongphiew, Vira Chankong, Fang-Fang Yin, Q. Jackie Wu, A Real-time Adaptive Radiation Therapy System for Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy: An Application of Multi-Objective Optimization , J. of Industrial & Management Optimization, Vol. 4, No. 3, August 2008. Q. Jackie Wu, Danthai Thongphiew, Vira Chankong, Boonyanit Mathayomchan , Sua Yoo, W. Robert Lee,Fang-Fang Yin, Online Re-optimization of Prostate IMRT Plan for Adaptive Radiation Therapy , J. of Medical Physics, 2008, (also presented at 49 th AAPM annual meeting, Minneapolis, MN, July, 2007) : 
