You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page. Prospective Students Students Alumni Faculty/Staff Media Partners/Peers Login iNTU (Intranet Portal) BOT Intranet GSlink Studentlink ServiceNow@NTU Ariba@NTU NTU VPN Email Reset Password Go to Advanced Search About NTU Corporate Info Organisation Publications Giving Careers Contact Us Visiting NTU Global International Relations Student exchange and short-term mobility programmes Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Incoming Non-Graduating Students Academics NTU Education Undergraduate Programmes Graduate Programmes Colleges/Schools Global programmes Institutes & Centres Continuous Education Research Research@NTU Research Directory Research Integrity Research Grant Nanyang Award & Programme Highlights Publications Research Facilities & Equipment NTU Policy Guide News And Events About RSO Campus Life Events Student Life Residential Education Community Engagement Accommodation Food & Beverage Retail & Services Healthcare Sports & Recreation Student Organisations Campus Clubhouse Academic Profile Research Directory Academic Profile Academic Profile Assoc Prof Quek Hiok Chai Associate Chair (Students), School of Computer Science and Engineering School of Computer Science and Engineering College of Engineering Email: ASHCQUEK@ntu.edu.sg Phone: (+65)6790 4926 Office: N4-02c-97 Education PhD Heriot-Watt University 1990 BSc(Hons) Heriot-Watt University 1986 Biography Dr Chai Quek is currently in the School of Computer Engineering since 1990. He received his Bachelor degree in Science and Ph.D. degrees from the Heriot-Watt University (Edinburgh). His research interests include Neurocognitive informatic, Biomedical Engineering and Computational Finance. He has done significant research work his research areas and published over 200 top quality international conference and journal papers. He has been often invited as a programme committee member or referee and reviewer for a number of premier conferences and journals, including IEEE TNN, TEvC etc. Dr. Quek is a senipr member of IEEE. He is also a member of the IEEE Technical Committee on Computational Finance and Economics. He has constantly and sucessfully groomed several high calibre research manpower who are awarded prestigious Singapore Millenium Foundation Scholar and Fellowships, Lee Kuan Yew Fellowship and A*Star Scholarhips. Research Interests His main interests includes the research and study of brain-inspired functional and computational models of memory structures that underlie the human reasoning process. In addition, advanced brain-inspired reasoning and cognition frameworks such as focus of attention, affect modeling, skill learning from novice to expert are actively investigated using the neurocognitive informatic approach. Fuzzy, Fuzzy neural, Neural, GA, GA-Neural, Rough set that maps formal fuzzy logical structures onto neural systems to perform fuzzy set derivation and Rule identification/reduction are investigated. The development of architectures that supports on-line and off-line learning fuzzy intelligent rule based systems is examined. The research issues cover fuzzy clustering, learning, modeling, fuzzy rule model, etc. These basic techniques are used to craft the brain-inspired memory learning systems. These memory learning structures are the building blocks of the functional neuro-cognitive brain and they can be broadly classified into huppocampal global semantic memories and neocortical like semantic association memories. In addition, research into CMAC and in-house developed MCMACs and Fuzzy MCMACs are actively pursued. They form a class of cerebellar like association memories that have excellent memory resolution and recall. The application areas are extensive as they rely heavily on the basic research into brain-inspired learning memory structures and brain-inspired cognitive architectures for emotion, cognition and perception modeling. The exciting application areas include computational finance ? arbitration, portfolio, trend analysis, bond and commodity trading; biomedical engineering ? diabetes modeling and control, ICU ventilator control; Affect modeling for edutainment, forensic tools, marketing research tools; Medical decision support tools ? thermograph analysis, pediatric leukemia and ovarian cancer analysis; Intelligent transportation analysis tools ? trend analysis and incident monitoring; as well as student affect modeling in Intelligent Tutoring System. Current Projects Data Analytics and Complex Systems(IAF-ICP) Data Analytics and Complex Systems(RR) Decoding of Imagined Hand Movement Kinematics using Brain-Computer Interface Object Co-space Matching for the Visually Impaired RR @ NTU Corp Lab - Computational Engineering Sensor-data intelligent computational modeling research for medical informatics. Selected Publications Javan Tan and C.Quek. (2010). A BCM-theory of meta-plasticity for online self-reorganizing fuzzy-associative learning. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, . S. D. Teddy, C. Quek, E. M-K. Lai and A. Cinar. (2010). PSECMAC Intelligent Insulin Schedule for Diabetic Blood Glucose Management Under Non Meal Announcement. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, 21 (3), 361-380. W.L.Tung and C.Quek. (2010). eFSM A Novel Online Neural-Fuzzy Semantic Memory Model. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, 21 (1), 136-157. G.M.Goh, C.Quek & D.L.Maskell. (2010). EpiList II: Closing the Loop in the Development of Generic Cognitive Skills. IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics-Part A: Systems and Humans, . C. Ting and C.Quek. (2009). A Novel Blood Glucose Regulation using TSK0-FCMAC: A Fuzzy CMAC Based on the Zero-ordered TSK Fuzzy Inference Scheme. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, 20 (5), 856-871. Back to Research Directory NTUPageContent Share Article Email Share Academic Profile Research Categories Faculty Listing Get ResIDs Main Campus 50 Nanyang Avenue Singapore 639798 Tel: (65) 67911744 NOVENA CAMPUS 11 MANDALAY ROAD SINGAPORE 308232 Tel: (65) 65138572 Contact Getting to NTU Getting Around NTU blogs@ntu Ask NTU Career Opportunities Research Integrity Follow NTU sg Copyright Disclaimer Data Protection And Privacy Reg. No. 200604393R 2012 Nanyang Technological University Last modified on 7-Dec-2017
