 Francis "Frank" L. Merat, Ph.D., P.E. Associate Professor Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Dept. Case Western Reserve University 2123 Martin Luther King Blvd Glennan 518 Cleveland, OH 44106-7071 U.S.A. Phone: +1-216-368-4572 Fax: +1-216-368-6039 flm at po.cwru.edu Office Hours: No open office hours during summer. By appointment only. Biographical Sketch Frank L. Merat was born in Frenchville , Pennsylvania in 1949. He received the B.S in Electrical Engineering from Case Institute of Technology in 1972, and a M.S. and Ph.D. in electrical engineering from Case Western Reserve University in 1975 and 1979 respectively. He is presently Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at Case Western Reserve University. He served as Interim Department Chairman from May 1999 to December 2000, Associate Chair for Undergraduate Matters from January 2001 to December 2002, and Associate Chair for Electrical and Computer Engineering from January 2003 to June 2008. Dr. Merat is a member of the Society for Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, the Association for Computing Machinery, and the Society of Manufacturing Engineers and is a Senior Member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. His technical interests include image processing and computer vision as applied to robots and manufacturing, rf electronics, and intelligent sensors and machines. Dr. Merat has taught many classes including analog and digital circuits classes, lasers and optics, electromagnetic fields, digital image processing, pattern recognition, wireless communications, assembly language programming/computer architecture, and rf electronics. Dr. Merat is very active with students and student advising and was one of the first recipients of the Distinguished Advisor Award awarded by the National Association for Academic Advising and ACT . He receiver the University's Wittke Award for Distinguished Undergraduate Teaching in 2010.. Dr. Merat representa the Case school of Engineering on the Faculty Senate Committee on Undergraduate Education . He is also a member of the Information Technology Services Planning and Advisory Committe (ITSPAC) . Dr. Merat consults in product design, intellectual property issues, and of the failure mechanisms of products, an area called forensic engineering , especially as it relates to electrical and/or electronic systems. My Links These are the links to the things you were actually looking for. Teaching Publications Full CV (pdf) COMING SOON Bio Sketch COMING SOON My Research (not complete) Available Senior Projects (Both from me and from industry) Electronics - want to know where to get free integrated circuits and parts, how about buying an old oscilloscope or other test equipment, where to get printed-circuit board layout software, PSpice, sources of useful electronics design software, etc. Information for BS/MS students TEST - htpasswd test Created: 2002-1-12 . Last Modified: 2014-6-21 . 
