 Seymour (Sy) Goodman Professor Sy Goodman Email : goodman@cc.gatech.edu Seymour (Sy) Goodman, Professor College of Computing & The Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Georgia Institute of Technology 801 Atlantic Drive Atlanta, GA 30332-0280 Tel: (404)385-1461 Fax: (404)385-0504 Biography Seymour (Sy) E. Goodman is Professor of International Affairs and Computing, jointly at the Sam Nunn School of International Affairs and the College of Computing at the Georgia Institute of Technology. He serves as Co-Director of both the Georgia Tech Information Security Center (GTISC) and the Center for International Strategy, Technology and Policy (CISTP). Prof. Goodman's research interests include international developments in the information technologies (IT), technology diffusion, IT and national security, and related public policy issues. Areas of geographic interest include the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe , Latin America , the Middle East , South and Southeast Asia , and parts of Africa . Earlier research had been in areas of statistical and continuum physics, combinatorial algorithms, and software engineering. Current work includes research on the global diffusion of the Internet and the protection of large IT-based infrastructures Immediately before coming to Georgia Tech, he was Director of the Consortium for Research on Information Security and Policy (CRISP) at the Center for International Security and Cooperation, with an appointment in the Department of Engineering Economic Systems and Operations Research, both at Stanford University; and Professor of MIS and a member of the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at the University of Arizona. Earlier tenured and visiting appointments have been at the University of Virginia (Applied Mathematics, Computer Science, and Soviet and East European Studies), Princeton University (Mathematics, and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs), and the University of Chicago (Economics). Prof. Goodman is Contributing Editor for International Perspectives for the Communications of the ACM , and has served with many government, academic, professional society, and industry advisory and study groups. His research pursuits have taken him to all seven continents and over 80 countries, and have included testimony before legislative bodies and Ministerial-level briefings. He is currently principal investigator on two large grants from the National Science Foundation and the MacArthur Foundation. Prof. Goodman was an undergraduate at Columbia University , where he started as an aspiring English major, and obtained his Ph.D. from the California Institute of Technology, where he worked on problems of applied mathematics and mathematical physics. [ top ] Representative Publications Seymour E. Goodman, Toward a Treaty-based International Regime on Cyber Crime and Terrorism, in Cyber Security: Turning National Solutions into International Cooperation , Center for Strategic and International Studies, CSIS Press, 2003,. pp. 65-78. Stephen J. Lukasik, Seymour E. Goodman, and David W. Longhurst, Protecting Critical Infrastructures Against Cyber-Attack , Adelphi Paper 359, International Institute for Strategic Studies, London , 2003. (98 pages) S. Goodman, P. Hassebroek, D. King, A. Ozment, International Coordination to Increase the Security of Critical Network Infrastructures, J. Information Warfar e, Vol. 2, Issue 2, 2003, pp. 72-87. Peter Wolcott and Seymour E. Goodman, The Global Diffusion of the Internet I: India : Is the Elephant Learning to Dance? Comm. of the AIS , Vol. 11, No. 32, 2003. Seymour Goodman , The Origins of Digital Computing in Europe , Comm. of the ACM , Vol. 49, No. 9, September 2003, pp. 21-25.* President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee and the Office of Science and Technology policy, 2003 Research and Development Exchange Proceedings: Research and Development Issues to Ensure Trustworthiness in Telecommunications and Information Systems that Directly or Indirectly Impact National Security and Emergency Preparedness, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta , GA , May 2003. (Prof. Goodman was one of the principal organizers of this conference.) S. E. Goodman, Cyber Terrorism and Security Measures, invited paper at the Indo-US Workshop on Science and Technology to Counter Terrorism, Co-Sponsored by the US National Academies of Science and Engineering, Washington DC, and the National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bangalore, India, January 12-15, 2004, Goa, India. To be published in a volume on the proceedings by the National Academies Press. [ top ] Current Projects Assurance and Security of Critical International Infrastructures; Global Diffusion of the Internet [ top ] Awards International Perspectives Editor, Communications of the ACM. Listings, Marquis Who's Who in the World and Who's Who in America. [ top ] Last updated October 22, 2004 
