 Show Menu Home Teaching Foundations of Fairness in Machine Learning (Fall 2018) Design and Analysis of Algorithms (Spring 2018) Principles of Imperative Computation (Su 2012) Publications Workshops/Tutorials AGT + Data Science, EC 2016 Dagstuhl 2017 Service Jamie Morgenstern Assistant Professor in the School of Computer Science at Georgia Tech Office: 2136 Klaus Email: 'jamiemmt' 'dot' 'cs' 'at' 'gatech' 'dot' 'edu' I am an assistant professor in the School of Computer Science Georgia Tech. Prior to this appointment, I was fortunate to be hosted by Michael Kearns , Aaron Roth , and Rakesh Vohra as a Warren Center fellow at the University of Pennsylvania. I completed my PhD working with Avrim Blum at Carnegie Mellon University. I study the social impact of machine learning and the impact of social behavior on ML's guarantees. How should machine learning be made robust to behavior of the people generating training or test data for it? How should ensure that the models we design do not exacerbate inequalities already present in society? Service I'm excited to serve as general cochair for FAT* 2019 , which will take place in Atlanta! For 2018, I'm on the PC for EC, ICML, FAT*, WWW, and ALT. In 2017, I was on the PC for EC, ICML, NetEcon, and FAT/ML. I also served on the EC PC in 2016. Funding I have been fortunate to be supported by the Simons Award for Graduate Students in Theoretical Computer Science (2014-2016), an NSF GFRP fellowship, as well as the Microsoft Research Graduate Women's Scholarship. Working papers Datasheets for Datasets I'm very excited about a project I've been working on with Timnit Gebru, Briana Vecchione, Jennifer Wortman Vaughn, Hanna Wallach, Hal Daume III, and Kate Crawford. We're proposing transparency and standardization of the documentation accompanying datasets. The working paper is here! Thesis Ph.D , Market Algorithms: Incentives, Learning, and Privacy (Defended May 2015) Original CMU Tech Report (Not updated for typos) Publications NIPS 2018 The Price of Fair PCA: One Extra Dimension. Samira Samadi, Uthaipon Tantipongpipat, Mohit Singh Jamie Morgenstern, and Santosh Vempala. NIPS 2018 A Smoothed Analysis of the Greedy Algorithm. Sampath Kannan, Jamie Morgenstern, Aaron Roth, Bo Waggoner, and Steven Wu. ICML 2017 Fair Learning in Markovian Environments. Shahin Jabbari, Matthew Joseph, Michael Kearns, Jamie Morgenstern, and Aaron Roth. EC 2017 Fairness Incentives for Myopic Agents. Sampath Kannan, Michael Kearns, Jamie Morgenstern, Mallesh Pai, Aaron Roth, Rakesh Vohra, and Zhiwei Steven Wu. arxiv WINE 2016 Strategic Network Formation with Attack and Immunization Sanjeev Goyal, Shahin Jabbari, Michael Kearns, Sanjeev Khanna, Jamie Morgenstern. arxiv NIPS 2016 Fairness in Learning: Classic and Contextual Bandits. Matthew Joseph, Michael Kearns, Jamie Morgenstern, and Aaron Roth. arxiv EC 2016 Simple Mechanisms for Agents with Complements Michal Feldman, Ophir Friedler, Jamie Morgenstern, Guy Reiner arxiv COLT 2016 Learning Simple Auctions Jamie Morgenstern, Tim Roughgarden arxiv STOC 2016 Do Prices Coordinate Markets? (short version) Justin Hsu, Jamie Morgenstern, Ryan Rogers, Aaron Roth, Rakesh Vohra arxiv NIPS 2015 The Pseudo-Dimension of Nearly Optimal Auctions Selected for a spotlight presentation, along with 3.6% of submissions. Jamie Morgenstern and Tim Roughgarden arxiv EC 2015 Private Pareto-Optimal Exchange Sampath Kannan, Jamie Morgenstern, Ryan Rogers, and Aaron Roth arxiv EC 2015 Simple Auctions with Simple Strategies Nikhil Devanur, Jamie Morgenstern, Vasilis Syrgkanis, S. Matthew Weinberg EC 2015 Learning What's Going On: Reconstruction Preferences and Priorities from Opaque Transactions Avrim Blum, Yishay Mansour, Jamie Morgenstern arxiv IJCAI 2015 Impartial Peer Review David Kurokawa, Omer Lev, Jamie Morgenstern, Ariel Procaccia SODA 2015 Approximately Stable, School Optimal, and Student-Truthful Many-to-One Matchings (via Differential Privacy) Sampath Kannan, Jamie Morgenstern, Aaron Roth, Steven Wu arxiv AAAI 2015 Learning Valuation Distributions from Partial Observation Avrim Blum, Yishay Mansour, Jamie Morgenstern arxiv ITCS 2015 Privacy-preserving Public Information in Sequential Games Avrim Blum, Jamie Morgenstern, Ankit Sharma, Adam Smith arxiv AAAI 2013 How Bad is Selfish Voting? Simina Brnzei, Ioannis Caragiannis, Jamie Morgenstern, Ariel D. Procaccia COSN 2013 Hierarchical community decomposition via oblivious routing techniques William Sean Kennedy, Jamie Morgenstern, Gordon Wilfong, Lisa Zhang APPROX 2012 Additive Approximation for Near-Perfect Phylogeny Construction Pranjal Awasthi, Avrim Blum, Jamie Morgenstern, Or Sheffet AAAI 2012 On Maxsum Fair Cake Divisions Steven J. Brams, Michal Feldman, John K. Lai, Jamie Morgenstern, Ariel D. Procaccia STM 2011 A proof-carrying File system with Revocable and Use-once Certificates (Conference on Security and Trust Management) Jamie Morgenstern, Deepak Garg, Frank Pfenning ICFP 2010 Security-typed Programming Within Dependently Typed Programming Jamie Morgenstern, Dan Licata 
