 Richard Peng () Assistant Professor, Georgia Institute of Technology 2144 KACB, 266 Ferst Drive, Atlanta, GA 30332 rpeng@cc.gatech.edu , 404-385-4312 Home Talks Research Publications Teaching Service NOTE: if you are contacting me for research related purposes, please try richard.peng@gmail.com for faster response times. However, due to school policies, I cannot communicate with students in my classes using this email address. I am an assistant professor in the School of Computer Science at the Georgia Institute of Technology. My research interests are in the design, analysis, and implementation of efficient algorithms. These interests currently revolve around problems induced by practice that arise at the intersection of discrete, numerical, and randomized algorithms, and my representative results include solvers graph-structured linear systems, nearly-linear time algorithms for approximating max-flows/min-cuts, and time/space efficient data strutures for matchings, resistances, and matrices. ( Research , Publications , Talks ) At Georgia Tech I'm part of the Algorithms and Randomness Center and the Algorithms, Combinatorics, and Optimization program. Before Georgia Tech, I received my BMath from Waterloo, PhD from CMU, and was an Instructor in Applied Math (equiv. to postdoc) at MIT. I had a visiting professor appointment at the Institute for Theoretical Computer Science at the Shanghai University of Finance and Economics between 2016 - 2018, and during the first half of 2019 I will be a visitig researcher in the Machine Learning and Optimization Group at Microsoft Research Redmond. I'm also extensively involved with algorithmic problem solving based outreach activities, including problem setting for the International Olympiad in Informatics , and helping with the DMOJ Online Judge and the ByteDance Winter Camp in advisory roles. ( CV ) Recent Activities October 2018: co-organized with Sushant Sachdeva a workshop, Laplacian Paradigm 2.0 , at FOCS 2018. June 2018: Article by GT College of Computing on recent works on solving structured linear systems. June 2018: co-organized Dagstuhl Seminar High-Performance Graph Algorithms with Henning Meyerhenke , Ali Pinar , and Ilya Safro . Current Students Yu Gao, Fall 2017 - present Saurabh Sawlani , Fall 2016 - present Former Students David Durfee , Fall 2015 - Fall 2018. Peng Zhang , PhD Fall 2015 - Summer 2018, postdoc at Yale University 2018 - present. 
