 Dr. Calton Pu Professor and John P. Imlay, Jr. Chair in Software College of Computing , Georgia Tech Co-Director, Center for Experimental Research in Computer Systems (CERCS) Ph.D., Computer Science & Engineering, University of Washington Office: KACB, room 3334 Address: Georgia Tech, 266 Ferst Dr, Atlanta, GA 30332-0765 USA Phone +1-404-385-1106 FAX +1-404-385-2295 Email: calton dot pu AT cc dot gatech dot edu Research Interests Calton's research interests are in the areas of service computing, distributed and cloud computing, integration and veracity of big data. His current projects include cloud computing (Elba) and big data (GRAIT-DM) research. Using experimental data from realistic benchmarks, the Elba project studies the interesting phenomena such as very short bottlenecks that have large impact on n-tier system response time. The GRAIT-DM project collects real world data from social sensors (e.g., Twitter and YouTube) and physical sensors (e.g., USGS GSN and NASA TRMM) to detect physical events and manage real-time information on them. The sponsors for Calton Pu's research include both government funding agencies such as NSF , and companies from industry such as HP, Fujitsu, IBM, and Intel. He is a co-director of Center for Experimental Research in Computer Systems (CERCS) , and affiliate faculty of Institute for Information Security and Privacy (IISP) at Georgia Tech. He is also the director of RCN on Big Data for Smart Cities, with collaborations around the world. Positions available: Georgia Tech is recruiting good graduate students. Current projects: Elba Project: Automated N-Tier Application Deployment GRAIT-DM : Global Research on Applying Information Technology for Disaster Management Past projects: Denial of Information project: Research on Deceptive and Misleading Information Infosphere project: System Software for Reliable Distributed Systems Continual Queries (CQ) project: WebCQ Page, and OpenCQ Page Quasar project Synthetix Operating System project Tactix Transaction Processing and Database project Scientific Data and Software Calton has taught several courses in the areas of systems and databases. In fall, he is teaching CS4220/6235 Real-Time Embedded Systems This page contains only unofficial information. The course is managed through T-Square. In spring, he is teaching CS4365/6365 Introduction to Enterprise Computing . (Past web pages, updates pending.) Selected Publications See my project publication pages (above) or google scholar [ https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=Vbv-JEwAAAAJ&hl=en ]. Other Interesting Information Calton's calendar (weekly and travel). Very short bio. My PhD students. Visitors to our lab. My first patent. Current patent count: 6. Mike Dahlins list of useful information for systems researchers. Hobbies: Hiking and gardening. Other interesting points in Web-touring 
