Gloria Washington LKD Room 1110 202-806-7417 gloria.washington@howard.edu Assistant Professor Postdoc. Computer Science Clemson University, Clemson, SC 2013-2015 Ph.D. Computer Science George Washington University Washington, DC 2011 M.S. Computer Science George Washington University Washington, DC 2004 B.S. Computer Information Systems Lincoln University Jefferson City, MO 2000 Research interests include human-computer interaction, human-centered computing, affective computing, and biometrics. Modeling and Simulation, CS 2 Data Structures, Human-Computer Interaction, Affective Computing, Biometrics Dr. Gloria Washington is an Assistant Professor at Howard University in the Computer Science Department. At Howard, she runs the Affective Biometrics Lab and performs research with her students on affective computing and biometrics. Before coming to Howard University she was an Intelligence Community Postdoctoral Research Fellow in the Department of Computing Science at Clemson University. She performed research on identifying individuals based solely from pictures of their ears. Dr. Washington has more than fifteen years in Government service and has presented on her research throughout industry. Ms. Washington holds M.S. and Ph.D. in Computer Science from The George Washington University, and a B.S. in Computer Information Systems from Lincoln University of Missouri. My research interests are biometrics, affective computing, and human-centered computing. Washington-Gloria_resume.pdf 1. G. Washington, J. Ward, M. Kameka. SpareMe How: Towards an Empathetic Tool for Helping Adolescents & Teenagers Cope with Sickle Cell. IEEE Workshop on Smart and Connected Health. Oct. 23, 2015. 2. G. Washington and R. Vordebruegge. A Wide-Scale Comparative Study on Ear Feature Extraction Analysis. Journal on Intelligence Community Postdoctoral Researcher Projects, September 2015. 3. G. Washington. Quantifying Negative Affect: Usability Testing to Observe the Effect of Negative Emotions on User Productivity Through the Use of BioSignals and OCC Theory. ACM SIGCHI International Conference on Physiological Computing, Feb. 11-13, 2015. 4. G. Washington. Towards Understanding the Impact of Frustration on Performance. Conference on Human Factors Mentoring Workshop, Apr. 14, 2010. 5. G. Washington. Understanding the impact of user frustration intensities on task performance using a novel adaptation of the OCC theory of emotions. 2011, dissertation. 6. G. Washington. Leveraging Human-body based Measures to Assess Task Performance in HCIs. Department of Defense Human Factors Technical Advisory Group Meeting. October, 2011. 7. G. Washington. Does User Frustration Really Decrease Task Performance? Applied Human Factors Ergonomic Conference and 1st International Conference on Affective and Pleasurable Design. San Francisco, CA. July 21  25, 2012. 8. G. Washington. Understanding the impact of user frustration intensities for modeling and simulation. Modeling and Simulation World Conference - Human Track Proceedings, September, 2011. 9. G. Washington & R. Price Jones. The State of the Art of Detecting User Frustration Through Physiological Indicators of Frustration  George Washington Technical Report. 2006.
