Su Yan Lewis K Downing Building, Suite 3030C (202) 806-2215 su.yan@howard.edu Assistant Professor Doctor of Philosophy, Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, August 2016 Doctor of Philosophy, Electromagnetics and Microwave Technology, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, December 2011 Master of Science, Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, August 2012 Bachelor of Science, Electronic Information Engineering, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, July 2005 Honors & Awards: Best Student Paper Award, The First Place Winner, ACES, Honolulu, HI, 2016 USNC/URSI Travel Fellowship Grant Award, The National Academies (NAS), 2015 P. D. Coleman Outstanding Research Award, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2015 Yuen T. Lo Outstanding Research Award, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2014 Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation, Sichuan Provincial Peoples Government, 2014 UIUC List of Teachers Ranked as Excellent by Their Students, Outstanding Rating (top 10%), University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Fall 2012 Outstanding Graduate Student (Highest honor from the university, ten recipients annually), UESTC, 2011 CASC Scholarship, UESTC, 2011 Best Student Paper Award, The First Place Winner, ACES, Williamsburg, VA, 2011 Best Student Paper Award, IEEE Chengdu Section, 2010 Graduate Scholarship, UESTC, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2006 Distinguished Dissertation Award, UESTC, 2005 Peoples Scholarship, UESTC, 2002-2005 National Mathematical Modeling Competition, The 3rd Award, Sichuan, China, 2003 Mathematical Modeling Competition, The 3rd Award, UESTC, 2002 Research Opportunities: I am currently looking for highly self-motivated and enthusiastic students who are interested in pursuing Ph.D. degrees in the area of applied and computational electromagnetics. Students with a solid background in mathematics, physics, and computer science are encouraged to apply. If interested, please contact me at su.yan@howard.edu with your personal statement and CV. To officially apply, please follow the general guidelines by Howard University Graduate School and the specific requirements of the Electrical and Computer Engineering program. Electromagnetic Modeling & Simulation Methods Linear and nonlinear electromagnetic modeling and simulation; Forward and inverse problems; Frequency- and time-domain algorithms; Integral-equation- and partial-differential-equation-based methods; Fast algorithms and preconditioning techniques. Multiphysics & Multiscale Modeling & Simulation Methods Electromagneticthermal coupling and co-simulation methods; Electromagneticplasma coupling and co-simulation methods; Spatial and temporal multiscale problems and coupling schemes. Advanced Numerical Methods Towards Accuracy, Efficiency, & Stability Dynamically h-, p-, and hp-adaptive algorithms in time domain; Divergence-cleaning techniques for inhomogeneous materials; Domain decomposition methods and multi-solver schemes; Parallel computing techniques based on both CPU and GPU platforms. Engineering Applications Electromagnetic scattering and radiation: radar cross section (RCS) evaluation, antenna and array analysis; Microwave devices and circuits modeling: S-parameter evaluation, breakdown analysis in high-power microwave devices; Bio-electromagnetic problems: specific absorption rate (SAR) modeling and evaluation, electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) analysis and electromagneticthermal effects. EECE 305  Fundamentals of Electromagnetics EECE 306  Fundamentals of Electromagnetics Laboratory Dr. Su Yan received the B.S. degree in electromagnetics and microwave technology from the University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, China, in 2005, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in electrical and computer engineering from the University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign, Urbana, IL, USA, in 2012 and 2016, respectively. From August 2016 to July 2018, he was a Postdoctoral Research Associate and an Instructor with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign. He joined the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Howard University, Washington, DC, USA, in August 2018, and is currently an Assistant Professor. He has authored or coauthored over 90 papers in refereed journals and conferences. His current research interests include nonlinear electromagnetic and multiphysics problems, electromagnetic scattering and radiation, numerical methods in computational electromagnetics, especially continuous and discontinuous Galerkin finite element methods, integral equation based methods, fast algorithms, and preconditioning techniques. Dr. Yan is a Senior Member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), and a Member of the Applied Computational Electromagnetics Society (ACES). He was a recipient of the Best Student Paper Award by the IEEE Chengdu Section in 2010, the Best Student Paper Award (The First Place Winner) at the 27th International Review of Progress in ACES, Williamsburg, VA, USA, in 2011, the USNC/URSI Travel Fellowship Grant Award by the National Academies in 2015, and the Best Student Paper Award (The First Place Winner) at the IEEE ICWITS/ACES 2016 Conference, Honolulu, HI, USA, in 2016. He was also a recipient of the Yuen T. Lo Outstanding Research Award and the P. D. Coleman Outstanding Research Award by the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign, in 2014 and 2015, respectively. His name appeared in the University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign's List of Teachers Ranked as Excellent by Their Students in 2012 with an outstanding rating (top 10%). He serves as a Reviewer for multiple journals and conferences including Proceedings of the IEEE, IEEE Antennas and Propagation Magazine, IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, and IEEE Transactions on Magnetics. He is also an Editorial Board Member for the Advances in Mathematical Physics and serves as a Lead Guest Editor for the International Journal of Antennas and Propagation. My current research interests include nonlinear electromagnetic and multiphysics problems, electromagnetic scattering and radiation, numerical methods in computational electromagnetics, especially continuous and discontinuous Galerkin finite element methods, integral equation based methods, fast algorithms, and preconditioning techniques. suyan_cv.pdf Personal Website: Dr. Su Yan's Google Site Google Scholar Profile: Google Scholar Profile
