 Noah Mendelsohn Professor of the Practice Tufts University Department of Computer Science noah@cs.tufts.edu Teaching In Spring of 2018 I am teaching COMP 117: Internet-Scale Distributed systems . That course was until 2017 numbered COMP 150-IDS. In Fall of 2017 I taught Comp 40: Machine Structure and Assembly Language Programming . Contacting me The best way to reach me is via e-mail to noah@cs.tufts.edu . I read that regularly, including when I am away from home or office. My Tufts office is: Halligan Hall 214 161 College Ave Medford, MA, 02155 I prefer e-mail whenever that's quick enough for you, but for cases where it's urgent that you speak to me, I have established a Google Voice number 617-506-3994 that you can call or text. When you call, it will ask your name, and then it will try ringing my mobile, my home, etc. Be patient, it can take a minute or so while it tries my phones. Office hours My office hours for Spring term of 2019 will be from 3:30 PM to 4:15 PM, immediately before I teach COMP 117. Please email me if you want to arrange to meet at some other time. Work outside of Tufts Until summer of 2013 I was for several years the chair of the World Wide Web Consortium's Technical Architecture Group ; the TAG is the senior steering committee responsible for the architectural integrity of the World Wide Web. I retired from IBM in 2010, and I hold the honorary title of IBM Distinguished Engineer Emeritus. More information Those of us who worked at W3C tend to find a lot of our specification drafts and e-mails posted publicly on the Web. That greatly increases our search karma so... if you do a Web search for my name , most of what comes back will indeed be about me. Other sources of information about my work, hobbies, etc. outside of Tufts can be found at: My public home page: http://www.arcanedomain.com/ Blog: http://blog.arcanedomain.com/ Twitter: http://twitter.com/noahmendelsohn The Web site includes my work history , a list of my publications and talks , and a page describing some CS papers that I particularly like . 
