 Tufts Computer Architecture Laboratory Welcome to TCAL Skip to content Home Current Research Projects Combative Cache Efficacy Techniques Emerging NVMs for the LLC Many-Accelerator Computing Power-Agile Computing and ThermalPlan PRSIM: Flexible Workload Characterization Security and the Thermal Side Channel Shared Accelerators SynchroTrace News Past Research Projects AfterBurner Before TCAL: Even Older Projects Sigil The Accelerator Store People Alumni Current Students Prof. Hempstead Publications Welcome Posted on April 17, 2013 by Mark D Hempstead The Tufts Computer Architecture Labis headed by Prof. Mark Hempstead within the department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. The research group investigates methods to increase energy efficiency across the boundaries of circuits, architecture, and systems. Our recent accomplishments include the PRSIM/Sigil workload characterization tools, the SynchroTrace multithreaded trace simulation framework, hardware and operating system support for power-agile computing. We have ongoing projects in specialized accelerator architecturescourse-grained reconfigurable architectures and security of manymany accelerator systems; power-agile and thermal aware computing systems; and characterization of caching and prefetching. See the project pages and recent publications for more information. Our lab was previously known as the Drexel Power-Aware Computing Lab and we moved to Tufts University in the fall of 2015. We still have members located at Drexel University co-advised by Prof. Baris Taskin in the VLSI Lab . Open Positions: We are looking for both Graduate Students and Post-Doc researchers interested in computer architecture and computer systems research. Please contact Prof. Hempstead for details. (Intel 4th Generation Haswell CPU die shot via www.extremetech.com) Posted in Uncategorized | Comments Off on Welcome Search for: Archives April 2013 Meta Log in Tufts Computer Architecture Laboratory Proudly powered by WordPress. 
