 Maintained by: Misha Kilmer Misha E. Kilmer William Walker Professor and Chair of Mathematics Adjunct Professor of Computer Science Tufts University Address: Department of Mathematics Tufts University 503 Boston Ave. Medford, MA 02155 Phone: (617) 627 - 2005 Office: 103 Bromfield-Pearson Fax: (617) 627-3966 E-mail: misha dot kilmer at tufts dot edu Google Scholar Page: link Office Hours By Appointment Bio: Misha Elena Kilmer is the William Walker Professor of Mathematics and Adjunct Professor of Computer Science at Tufts University. She currently serves as Chair of the Tufts Department of Mathematics. Prof. Kilmer obtained her Ph.D. in Applied Mathematics from the University of Maryland, College Park, in Dec. 1997. She served as Visiting Scientist in the ECE Dept. of Northeastern University from Jan. 1998 until departing for Tufts in the fall of 1999. Her research interest is in numerical (multi-)linear algebra. She specializes in the development of fast algorithms for solving large-scale, forward and inverse problems, as well as on theoretical and applied aspects of tensor computation. She is a 2001 recipient of the Tufts Undergraduate Initiative in Teaching Award and was promoted directly to Full Professor. She is a member of AWM and SIAM. She currently serves as Section Editor for SIAM Review Research Spotlights and as an associate editor for SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing. She is a former Associate Editor for SIAM Journal on Matrix Analysis and Applications and for SIAM Undergraduate Research Online. She is the author of numerous refereed articles and conference proceedings papers appearing in a wide range of computational math and engineering publications. Her work has been or is being funded by the NSF, NIH, IARPA, DARPA and IBM. She has served as referee for numerous highly rated scientific journals as proposal reviewer and cite team member for the National Science Foundation, as an international Ph.D. thesis examiner, on program committees for several international research conferences, and on award committees for international awards. A complete CV can be found here (updated Dec. 2017) and a 4 page CV can be found here (updated Oct. 2018). (Click here for a few details on work specifically related to bioimaging .) 
