No results found. Home About Dr. Panetta Contact Research Research Topics Lab Members Patents Download Publications Journal Articles Book Chapters Books Conference Papers Magazine Articles Newspaper Articles Professional IEEE SPIE SWE Media News Events Video Teaching Blog Karen Panetta Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Dean of Graduate Education for the School of Engineering, Tufts University | IEEE Fellow Home About Dr. Panetta Contact Research Research Topics Lab Members Patents Download Publications Journal Articles Book Chapters Books Conference Papers Magazine Articles Newspaper Articles Professional IEEE SPIE SWE Media News Events Video Teaching Blog About Karen Panetta Research Lab Latest Publications About Karen Panetta SCROLL DOWN About Karen Panetta About Karen Panetta Karen Panetta is a computer engineer, inventor and the Dean of Graduate Education for the School of Engineering at Tufts University.Karen develops signal and imaging processing algorithms, simulation tools and embedded systems for applications for robot vision,and biomedical imaging applications. She has won a number of awards for social impact, teaching and mentoring, ethics, and engineering education, including the Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Math and Engineering Mentoring. She founded the "Nerd Girls" program, which encourages young women to pursue engineering and science.Karen is the editor-in-chief of IEEE WIE Magazine. Her passion is utilzing her engineering knowledge for the benefit of humanity. Learn More About Karen CV | Teaching | Deans Blog Research Lab SCROLL DOWN Research Lab Research and Humanitarian Applications Humanitarian Research Application Karen changing the world using technology During her travels around the world, Karen has had the opportunity to see firsthand the need for engineers to use their skills to benefit humanity, especially for global social challenges facing women and children. Karens commitment to " Doing The Right Thing means that she takes on projects that may be controversial and oftentimes, serve populations that have no financial means or voice in society. Karens work brings awareness to the plights of these populations and a provides humanitarians with technology to better serve those individuals we wish to help. Dr. Panetta at the Smithsonian Zoo What do Electrical Engineering Professor Dr. Karen Panetta and Elephants have in common? Why are Girls under the age of 4 in Tamil Nadu India more affected by Autism than boys? Why do 3 out of 4 babies born in Liberia die at birth? Why can Human Traffickers use Technology better than the Law-Enforcement Agencies and NGOs trying to stop trafficking? Learn more about Karens Humanitarian Research Research Applications Karen helps doctors find cancerous tumors, security screeners find concealed weapons, and law enforcement agencies find criminals and missing children. She does this by developing computer algorithms that are inspired by the human visual system, giving machines the ability to "see" the way people do. Imagine police officers have zeroed in on a suspect in a dark building and send in a robot to scan for threats. Rather than transmitting back images that are too dark and then waiting for them to be processed, the robot can use Karens algorithms to figure out the best way to enhance the images in real time, so the officers can quickly get the best visuals and see whats important to them. Her technology is helping to solve one of the biggest problems in computer vision -- how to enable computers to perceive and evaluate images like the human eye does -- and it has all sorts of interesting and important applications for homeland security, biomedicine, facial recognition, and search and rescue operations. Learn more about Karens research Meet Karens lab members For prospective students (PDF) Latest Publications SCROLL DOWN Latest Publications Recently Published Journal Articles Featured Novel multi-color transfer algorithms and quality measure A human visual "no-reference" image quality measure Human Visual Systems Inspired Underwater Image Quality Measures See all Journal articles Recently Published Conference Papers Featured Color Image Attribute and Quality Measurements Transform Domain Measure of Enhancement -TDME - For Security Imaging Applications Face Recognition Based on Logarithmic Local Binary Patterns See all conference papers Top Twitter Tweets from https://twitter.com/nerdgirls/lists/nerd-girls-list 2015 - 2019 Karen Panetta Designed and developed by ScienceSites : websites for scientists Powered by Squarespace
