 Aaron Bobick Dean & James M. McKelvey Professor Aaron Bobick joined Washington University in St. Louis as Dean of the School of Engineering & Applied Science and the James M. McKelvey Professor July 1, 2015. Prior to Washington University, he was a professor and founding chair of the School of Interactive Computing at the Georgia Institute of Technology, where he was a member of the faculty since 1999. Dean Bobick's research primarily focuses on action recognition by computer vision, a field in which he is a pioneer. Recently he hasextended his research to robot perception for human-robot collaboration. While at Georgia Tech, he served as director of the Graphics, Visualization and Usability Center, an internationally known research center in computer vision, graphics, ubiquitous computing and human-computer interaction, and helped develop a computational media bachelors degree program and doctoral programs in robotics and human centered computing. Dean Bobick is a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), where he earned his bachelor's degrees in mathematics and computer science and his doctorate in cognitive science. Prior to joining the Georgia Tech faculty, he served as a member of the MIT Media Laboratory faculty, where he led the Media Lab Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) Video Surveillance and Monitoring Project, as well as its Dynamic Scene Analysis research effort. He also has served as a senior area chair for numerous international computer vision conferences and as program chair for the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. He has founded a variety of successful startup companies, is a distinguished scientist of the Association for Computing Machinery and was elected a Fellow of the IEEE in 2014.: . . . 314-935-6350 afb@wustl.edu Brauer Hall, Room 1019 . . Google Scholar Dean's Blog Podcast. Dean & James M. McKelvey Professor. Aaron Bobick joined Washington University in St. Louis as Dean of the School of Engineering & Applied Science and the James M. McKelvey Professor July 1, 2015. Prior to Washington University, he was a professor and founding chair of the School of Interactive Computing at the Georgia Institute of Technology, where he was a member of the faculty since 1999.. Dean Bobick's research primarily focuses on action recognition by computer vision, a field in which he is a pioneer. Recently he hasextended his research to robot perception for human-robot collaboration. While at Georgia Tech, he served as director of the Graphics, Visualization and Usability Center, an internationally known research center in computer vision, graphics, ubiquitous computing and human-computer interaction, and helped develop a computational media bachelors degree program and doctoral programs in robotics and human centered computing. . Dean Bobick is a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), where he earned his bachelor's degrees in mathematics and computer science and his doctorate in cognitive science. Prior to joining the Georgia Tech faculty, he served as a member of the MIT Media Laboratory faculty, where he led the Media Lab Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) Video Surveillance and Monitoring Project, as well as its Dynamic Scene Analysis research effort. . He also has served as a senior area chair for numerous international computer vision conferences and as program chair for the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. He has founded a variety of successful startup companies, is a distinguished scientist of the Association for Computing Machinery and was elected a Fellow of the IEEE in 2014.. Studies how robots can more efficiently interact with objects. 
