 Christopher Gill Professor Lab Website Expertise Real-time, embedded, and cyber-physical systems; middleware, operating systems, and virtualization Research Professor Gill's research focuses on assuring properties of distributed real-time and embedded systems in which software complexity, unpredictable environments, and heterogeneous platforms demand novel solutions that are grounded in sound theory. A major goal of his work is to assure that constraints on timing, memory footprint, fault-tolerance, and other system properties can be met when system software is re-used across heterogeneous applications, operating environments and deployment platforms. Biography Professor Gill has been with Washington University in St. Louis (WashU) since 1997, first as a research associate and since 2001 as a member of the faculty. He gained significant industry experience working for companies such as SBC Communications (now AT&T), Teknivent Corp., Saleskit Software and Prudential Group Health. As an undergraduate student at WashU, Professor Gill was a National Merit Scholar and graduated cum laude in English and Biology. A National Science Foundation CAREER award recipient, Professor Gill emphasizes a laboratory-based teaching approach, with personal attention to how students combine fundamentals of computer science with state-of-the-art software engineering techniques, to gain expertise and hands-on experience in designing and implementing high quality software.: . . . 314-935-7538 cdgill@wustl.edu JolleyHall, Room 518. . Google Scholar. Professor. Professor Gill has been with Washington University in St. Louis (WashU) since 1997, first as a research associate and since 2001 as a member of the faculty. He gained significant industry experience working for companies such as SBC Communications (now AT&T), Teknivent Corp., Saleskit Software and Prudential Group Health. As an undergraduate student at WashU, Professor Gill was a National Merit Scholar and graduated cum laude in English and Biology.. A National Science Foundation CAREER award recipient, Professor Gill emphasizes a laboratory-based teaching approach, with personal attention to how students combine fundamentals of computer science with state-of-the-art software engineering techniques, to gain expertise and hands-on experience in designing and implementing high quality software.. National Science Foundation CAREER award recipient. 
