 Roch Gurin Department Chair Harold B. &Adelaide G. Welge Professor of Computer Science Lab Website Expertise Computer networks, cloud computing, performance analysis, and network economics Research RochGurin is an international leader in the field of computer networking, both for his major research contributions and his dedication to serving the community. He is widely recognized for his contributions to understanding the fundamentals of data network design and how networks can be designed to provide desired quality of service guarantees. His work was among the earliest in this area and is credited with laying the foundation for later work. He also made early contributions in wireless and cellular networks.His current research interests are in networked systems including aspects of network economics. He has published research in a variety of journals and served on advisory boards of international telecommunications companies. He is an ACM and IEEE Fellow and since 2013 has been a member of the the ACM Publications Board . Biography Professor Gurin became chair of the Computer Science & Engineering department at Washington University in St. Louis in July 2013.He was previously the Alfred Fitler Moore Professor of Telecommunications Networks and professor of electrical and systems engineering and computer and information science at the University of Pennsylvania, where he had been on the faculty since 1998. Previously, he spent 12 years at the IBM T.J. Watson Research Center.: . . . 314-935-6165 guerin@wustl.edu JolleyHall, Room 304C. . Google Scholar. Department Chair. Harold B. &Adelaide G. Welge Professor of Computer Science. Computer networks, cloud computing, performance analysis, and network economics. Professor Gurin became chair of the Computer Science & Engineering department at Washington University in St. Louis in July 2013.He was previously the Alfred Fitler Moore Professor of Telecommunications Networks and professor of electrical and systems engineering and computer and information science at the University of Pennsylvania, where he had been on the faculty since 1998. Previously, he spent 12 years at the IBM T.J. Watson Research Center.. International leader in the field of computer networking. 
