 Raj Jain Barbara J. &Jerome R. Cox, Jr. Professor of Computer Science Lab Website Research Professor Jains research interests include Network Security, Blockchains, Medical Systems Security, Industrial Control Systems Security, Wireless Networks, Unmanned Aircraft Systems, Internet of Things, Telecommunications Networks, Traffic Management, Performance Analysis, and Modeling and Simulation. Biography Jain is a Life Fellow of IEEE, a Fellow of ACM, a Fellow of AAAS, a winner of 2017 ACM SIGCOMM Life-Time Achievement Award, 2015 A.A. Michelson Award, ACM SIGCOMM Test of Time award 2006, CDAC-ACCS Foundation Award 2009, IISc Distinguished Alumnus Award 2014, WiMAX Forum Individual Contribution Award 2008, and ranks among the Most Cited Authors in Computer Science. Previously, he was one of the Co-founders of Nayna Networks, Inc - a next generation telecommunications systems company in San Jose, CA. He was a Senior Consulting Engineer at Digital Equipment Corporation in Littleton, Mass and then a professor of Computer and Information Sciences at Ohio State University in Columbus, Ohio. He is the author or editor of 12 books including "Art of Computer Systems Performance Analysis,'' which won the 1991 "Best-Advanced How-to Book, Systems'' award from Computer Press Association and "High-Performance TCP/IP: Concepts, Issues, and solutions," published by Prentice Hall in November 2003. He is a co-editor of "Quality of Service Architectures for Wireless Networks: Performance Metrics and Management," published in April 2010. Jain has 14 patents, and has written 16 book chapters, 75+ journal and magazine papers and 120+ conference papers. Google Scholar lists over 27000+ citations to his publications. He is a co-inventor of the DECbit scheme, which has been implemented in various forms in DECnet, OSI, Frame Relay, and ATM Networks.: . . . 314-935-4963 jain@wustl.edu JolleyHall, Room 208. . . Google Scholar. Barbara J. &Jerome R. Cox, Jr. Professor of Computer Science. Professor Jains research interests include Network Security, Blockchains, Medical Systems Security, Industrial Control Systems Security, Wireless Networks, Unmanned Aircraft Systems, Internet of Things, Telecommunications Networks, Traffic Management, Performance Analysis, and Modeling and Simulation.. . Jain is a Life Fellow of IEEE, a Fellow of ACM, a Fellow of AAAS, a winner of 2017 ACM SIGCOMM Life-Time Achievement Award, 2015 A.A. Michelson Award, ACM SIGCOMM Test of Time award 2006, CDAC-ACCS Foundation Award 2009, IISc Distinguished Alumnus Award 2014, WiMAX Forum Individual Contribution Award 2008, and ranks among the Most Cited Authors in Computer Science. Previously, he was one of the Co-founders of Nayna Networks, Inc - a next generation telecommunications systems company in San Jose, CA. He was a Senior Consulting Engineer at Digital Equipment Corporation in Littleton, Mass and then a professor of Computer and Information Sciences at Ohio State University in Columbus, Ohio.. He is the author or editor of 12 books including "Art of Computer Systems Performance Analysis,'' which won the 1991 "Best-Advanced How-to Book, Systems'' award from Computer Press Association and "High-Performance TCP/IP: Concepts, Issues, and solutions," published by Prentice Hall in November 2003. He is a co-editor of "Quality of Service Architectures for Wireless Networks: Performance Metrics and Management," published in April 2010.. Jain has 14 patents, and has written 16 book chapters, 75+ journal and magazine papers and 120+ conference papers. Google Scholar lists over 27000+ citations to his publications. He is a co-inventor of the DECbit scheme, which has been implemented in various forms in DECnet, OSI, Frame Relay, and ATM Networks.. Google Scholar lists27000+ citations to his publications. 
