 Brendan Juba Assistant Professor Lab Website Research Brendan Juba's work primarily concerns theoretical approaches to artificial intelligence, founded on the theory of algorithms and computational complexity. In particular, he has worked on algorithms for integrated learning and reasoning (e.g., in common sense reasoning) and on a theory of communication in the absence of standards (introductions available in three lengths, short,medium, andlong). His interests also lie in theoretical computer science more broadly construed. Biography P rofessor Juba graduated from MITin September 2010 and subsequently worked as a postdoc under the supervision of Leslie Valiant, PhD,at Harvard until joining Washington University in fall 2014. He had also remained affiliated with MITs Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) as a postdoc with the National Science Foundation's Center for Science of Information through Summer 2012.: . . . 314-935-8552 bjuba@wustl.edu Jolley Hall, Room 508. . Google Scholar. Assistant Professor. Brendan Juba's work primarily concerns theoretical approaches to artificial intelligence, founded on the theory of algorithms and computational complexity. In particular, he has worked on algorithms for integrated learning and reasoning (e.g., in common sense reasoning) and on a theory of communication in the absence of standards (introductions available in three lengths, short,medium, andlong). His interests also lie in theoretical computer science more broadly construed.. P rofessor Juba graduated from MITin September 2010 and subsequently worked as a postdoc under the supervision of Leslie Valiant, PhD,at Harvard until joining Washington University in fall 2014. He had also remained affiliated with MITs Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) as a postdoc with the National Science Foundation's Center for Science of Information through Summer 2012.. Works on algorithms for integrated learning & reasoning in artificial intelligence. 
