 Ulugbek Kamilov Assistant Professor Lab Website Research Professor Kamilovs main research area is computational imaging. He develops advanced algorithms for various imaging applications including optical microscopy and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), radar, and autonomous driving. He has a strong interest in image reconstruction, compressive imaging, convex and nonconvex optimization, machine learning, and statistical inference. Biography Professor Kamilov obtained his M.Sc. in Communication Systems and PhD in Electrical Engineering, in 2011 and 2015, respectively, from the cole polytechnique fdrale de Lausanne (EPFL), Switzerland. He was an exchange student at Carnegie Mellon University in 2007, a visiting student at Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 2010, and a visiting student researcher at Stanford University in 2013. Professor Kamilov joined Washington University in St. Louis from Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories, where was a research scientist in computational sensing. Prof. Kamilov is recipient of the IEEE Signal Processing Societys 2017 Best Paper Award (with V. K. Goyal and S. Rangan). His work on Learning Tomography (LT) was featured in Nature News and Views in 2015. His PhDthesis was selected as a finalist for the EPFL Doctorate Award in 2016.: . . . 314-935-2601 kamilov@wustl.edu JolleyHall, Room 532. . @ukmlv. Google Scholar. Assistant Professor. Professor Kamilovs main research area is computational imaging. He develops advanced algorithms for various imaging applications including optical microscopy and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), radar, and autonomous driving. He has a strong interest in image reconstruction, compressive imaging, convex and nonconvex optimization, machine learning, and statistical inference.. . Professor Kamilov obtained his M.Sc. in Communication Systems and PhD in Electrical Engineering, in 2011 and 2015, respectively, from the cole polytechnique fdrale de Lausanne (EPFL), Switzerland. He was an exchange student at Carnegie Mellon University in 2007, a visiting student at Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 2010, and a visiting student researcher at Stanford University in 2013. Professor Kamilov joined Washington University in St. Louis from Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories, where was a research scientist in computational sensing.. Prof. Kamilov is recipient of the IEEE Signal Processing Societys 2017 Best Paper Award (with V. K. Goyal and S. Rangan). His work on Learning Tomography (LT) was featured in Nature News and Views in 2015. His PhDthesis was selected as a finalist for the EPFL Doctorate Award in 2016.. Studiesadvanced algorithms andmathematical tools for biomedical andindustrial imaging. 
