 Caitlin Kelleher Hugo F. & Ina Champ Urbauer Career Development Associate Professor Lab Website Expertise User-centered design and evaluation Research Caitlin Kelleher is a researcher in Human-Computer Interaction and focuses on designing new kinds of programming environments and languages that democratize programming. Recently, her research group has focused on supporting children learning to program independently. This research has resulted in new kinds of support for tutorials, code execution history exploration tools, and robust support for reusing code from unfamiliar programs. Additionally, her group has explored how to support learning from code puzzles and the kinds of learning decisions young novices make in open ended contexts. The results of this research are shared through the Looking Glass programming environment, available at lookingglass.wustl.edu . Biography Professor Kelleher joined the faculty at Washington University in St. Louis in 2007. She is the recipient of an NSF Career award and was named a 2013 Sloan Foundation Fellow. Her work has won several best paper awards at top conferences.: . . . 314-935-6119 ckelleher@wustl.edu JolleyHall, Room 411. . Google Scholar. Hugo F. & Ina Champ Urbauer Career Development Associate Professor. User-centered design and evaluation. Caitlin Kelleher is a researcher in Human-Computer Interaction and focuses on designing new kinds of programming environments and languages that democratize programming. Recently, her research group has focused on supporting children learning to program independently. This research has resulted in new kinds of support for tutorials, code execution history exploration tools, and robust support for reusing code from unfamiliar programs. Additionally, her group has explored how to support learning from code puzzles and the kinds of learning decisions young novices make in open ended contexts. The results of this research are shared through the Looking Glass programming environment, available at lookingglass.wustl.edu .. Professor Kelleher joined the faculty at Washington University in St. Louis in 2007. She is the recipient of an NSF Career award and was named a 2013 Sloan Foundation Fellow. Her work has won several best paper awards at top conferences.. Developed "Storytelling Alice," a programming system for middle school girls. 
