 I-Ting Angelina Lee Assistant Professor Lab Website Research I-Ting Angelina Lee's research focuses on advancing software technologies for parallel computing. She is interested in many aspects of parallel computing, including designing programming models and linguistic constructs to simplify parallel programming, developing runtime and operating system support to execute multithreaded programs efficiently, and building software tools to aid debugging and performance engineering of multithreaded code. Biography ProfessorLee's joined the Department of Computer Science& Engineering at Washington University in St. Louis in fall 2014. Prior to that, Professor Lee worked with the Supertech research groupat Massachusetts Institute of Technology, led by Professor Charles Leiserson for her graduate study and subsequently as a postdoctoral associate. She received the Best Paper Award at the 2012 Symposium on Parallelism in Algorithms and Architectures (SPAA).: . . . 314-935-4621 angelee@wustl.edu Jolley Hall, Room 516. . Google Scholar. Assistant Professor. I-Ting Angelina Lee's research focuses on advancing software technologies for parallel computing. She is interested in many aspects of parallel computing, including designing programming models and linguistic constructs to simplify parallel programming, developing runtime and operating system support to execute multithreaded programs efficiently, and building software tools to aid debugging and performance engineering of multithreaded code.. ProfessorLee's joined the Department of Computer Science& Engineering at Washington University in St. Louis in fall 2014. Prior to that, Professor Lee worked with the Supertech research groupat Massachusetts Institute of Technology, led by Professor Charles Leiserson for her graduate study and subsequently as a postdoctoral associate. She received the Best Paper Award at the 2012 Symposium on Parallelism in Algorithms and Architectures (SPAA).. Works to advance software technologies for parallel computing. 
