 Dakshita Khurana I am joining CS@Illinois as Assistant Professor starting Fall 2019. I'm looking for motivated students! Please apply and email me if you are interested in working with me. I am a Postdoctoral Researcher at Microsoft Research New England . I work in Cryptography and related topics in Privacy, Security and Theoretical Computer Science. I recently graduated from UCLA, under the fantastic supervision of Prof. Amit Sahai and Prof. Rafail Ostrovsky . I received the 2017-18 Dissertation Year Fellowship, the 2017-18 UCLA CS Outstanding Graduating Ph. D. Student Award, 2017-18 Symantec Outstanding Graduate Student Research Award, and the 2016-17 Cisco Outstanding Graduate Student Research Award. I spent the the summers of 2016 and 2017 as a research intern with Yael Tauman Kalai at Microsoft Research New England , and the summer of 2014 as a research intern with Vipul Goyal at Microsoft Research India . Prior to this, I obtained a Bachelor's in Technology from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi in 2012. I received a Master's Degree in Computer Science from UCLA in 2014. You can find my CV here . Program Committees: Eurocrypt 2019. Email: dakshita@cs.ucla.edu Publications (Authors Alphabetical): 23. Non-interactive non-malleability from Quantum Supremacy Manuscript, ePrint 2018 Yael Tauman Kalai and Dakshita Khurana 22. Weak Zero-Knowledge Beyond the Black-Box Barrier Manuscript, ePrint 2018 Nir Bitansky, Dakshita Khurana and Omer Paneth 21. Round Optimal Black-Box ``Commit-and-Prove'' In Theory of Cryptography Conference, TCC 2018 Dakshita Khurana, Rafail Ostrovsky and Akshayaram Srinivasan 20. Upgrading to Functional Encryption In Theory of Cryptography Conference, TCC 2018 Saikrishna Badrinarayanan, Dakshita Khurana, Amit Sahai and Brent Waters 19. Promise Zero Knowledge and its Applications to Round Optimal MPC In Advances in Cryptology, CRYPTO 2018 Saikrishna Badrinarayanan, Vipul Goyal, Abhishek Jain, Yael Tauman Kalai, Dakshita Khurana and Amit Sahai 18. Non-interactive Delegation for Low Space Non-Deterministic Computation In Symposium on the Theory of Computing, STOC 2018 Saikrishna Badrinarayanan, Yael Tauman Kalai, Dakshita Khurana, Amit Sahai and Daniel Wichs 17. Statistical WI (and More) in Two Messages In Advances in Cryptology, EUROCRYPT 2018 Yael Tauman Kalai, Dakshita Khurana and Amit Sahai 2017 16. How to Achieve Non-Malleability in One or Two Rounds In Foundations of Computer Science, FOCS 2017, Invited to SIAM Journal of Computing (SICOMP) Special Issue for selected papers from FOCS Dakshita Khurana and Amit Sahai 15. Distinguisher-Dependent Simulation in Two Rounds and its Applications In Advances in Cryptology, CRYPTO 2017 Abhishek Jain, Yael Kalai, Dakshita Khurana and Ron Rothblum 14. New Feasibility Results in Unconditional UC-Secure Computation with (Malicious) PUFs In Advances in Cryptology, EUROCRYPT 2017 Saikrishna Badrinarayanan, Dakshita Khurana and Rafail Ostrovsky and Ivan Visconti 13. Round Optimal Concurrent Non-Malleability from Polynomial Hardness In Theory of Cryptography Conference, TCC 2017 Dakshita Khurana 12. Round Optimal Concurrent MPC via Strong Simulation In Theory of Cryptography Conference, TCC 2017 Saikrishna Badrinarayanan, Vipul Goyal, Abhishek Jain, Dakshita Khurana and Amit Sahai 2016 11. Breaking the Three Round Barrier for Non-Malleable Commitments In Foundations of Computer Science, FOCS 2016 Vipul Goyal, Dakshita Khurana and Amit Sahai 10. All Complete Functionalities are Reversible In Advances in Cryptology, EUROCRYPT 2016 Dakshita Khurana, Daniel Kraschewski, Hemanta K Maji, Manoj Prabhakaran and Amit Sahai 9. Secure Computation from Elastic Noisy Channels In Advances in Cryptology, EUROCRYPT 2016 Dakshita Khurana, Hemanta K Maji and Amit Sahai 8. How to Generate and Use Universal Samplers In Advances in Cryptology, ASIACRYPT 2016 Dennis Hofheinz, Tibor Jager, Dakshita Khurana, Amit Sahai, Brent Waters and Mark Zhandry 7. Do Distributed Differentially-Private Protocols Require Oblivious Transfer? In International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and Programming, ICALP 2016 (Track A) Vipul Goyal, Dakshita Khurana, Ilya Mironov, Omkant Pandey and Amit Sahai 2015 6. Multi-Party Key Exchange for Unbounded Parties from Indistinguishability Obfuscation In Advances in Cryptology, ASIACRYPT 2015 Dakshita Khurana, Vanishree Rao and Amit Sahai 5. Statistical Randomized Encodings: A Complexity Theoretic View In International Colloquium on Automata, Languages and Programming, ICALP 2015 (Track A) Shweta Agrawal, Yuval Ishai, Dakshita Khurana and Anat Paskin-Cherniavsky 4. Non-Malleable Multi-Prover Interactive Proofs and Witness Signatures Cryptology ePrint Archive 2015 Vipul Goyal, Aayush Jain and Dakshita Khurana 2014 3. Black-Box Separations for Differentially Private Protocols In Advances in Cryptology, ASIACRYPT 2014 Dakshita Khurana, Hemanta K Maji and Amit Sahai Undergraduate Research 2. A Grammar-Based GUI for Single View Reconstruction ICVGIP 2012 Dakshita Khurana, Surabhi Sankhla, Abhinav Shukla, Richa Varshney, Prem Kalra, Subhashis Banerjee 1. Ensuring Tight Computational Security Against Higher-Order DPA Attacks PST 2011 Dakshita Khurana and Aditya Gaurav Research Overview: Within cryptography, my work designs secure protocols resisting active attacks while requiring minimal interaction. Some of my work [ KS17 , GKS16 ] has constructed protocols achieving security against man-in-the-middle attacks with minimal back-and-forth interaction, disproving and overcoming perceived impossibilities in the area. My work has also constructed non-interactive proof systems for NP achieving some desirable properties. Specifically, in [ JKKR17 ], we rely on well-studied assumptions to construct such proof systems achieving variants of zero-knowledge. These recently helped build other secure protocols with optimal interaction [ K17 , BGJKKS17 ]. In very recent work [ BKKSW17 ], we build succinct non-interactive proof systems for verifiably outsourcing non-deterministic computation with verification time growing only with the non-deterministic space complexity of computation, based for the first time on standard cryptographic assumptions. I have also worked on unconditionally secure computation using untrusted or leaky hardware, on differential privacy, and on program obfuscation. 
