 William Yeoh Assistant Professor Lab Website Research Professor Yeohs research focuses on artificial intelligence with an emphasis on developing optimization algorithms for agent-based systems. His primary expertise is in distributed constraint optimization, where his goal is to develop and deploy such algorithms in multi-agent systems including smart grid and smart home applications as well as cloud and edge computing applications. His research has been funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF) as well as the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). Biography Professor Yeoh joined Washington University in St. Louis in 2017from New Mexico State University, where he was an assistant professor of computer science since 2012. He received a CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation in 2016 and was named one of AIs 10 to Watch by IEEE Intelligent Systems. Previously, he was a research scientist at Singapore Management University and a postdoctoral research associate at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. He has served on the program committees and senior program committees of numerous AI-related conferences including AAAI, AAMAS, CP, ICAPS, and IJCAI. He has also served as student outreach co-chair of AAAI, tutorial co-chair of AAAI and PRIMA, scholarship co-chair of AAMAS, and sponsorship co-chair of ICAPS. : . . . 314-935-3098 wyeoh@wustl.edu JolleyHall, Room 407. . Google Scholar. Assistant Professor. Professor Yeohs research focuses on artificial intelligence with an emphasis on developing optimization algorithms for agent-based systems. His primary expertise is in distributed constraint optimization, where his goal is to develop and deploy such algorithms in multi-agent systems including smart grid and smart home applications as well as cloud and edge computing applications. His research has been funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF) as well as the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA).. Professor Yeoh joined Washington University in St. Louis in 2017from New Mexico State University, where he was an assistant professor of computer science since 2012. He received a CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation in 2016 and was named one of AIs 10 to Watch by IEEE Intelligent Systems. Previously, he was a research scientist at Singapore Management University and a postdoctoral research associate at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.. He has served on the program committees and senior program committees of numerous AI-related conferences including AAAI, AAMAS, CP, ICAPS, and IJCAI. He has also served as student outreach co-chair of AAAI, tutorial co-chair of AAAI and PRIMA, scholarship co-chair of AAMAS, and sponsorship co-chair of ICAPS. . Develops algorithms forsmart grid &smart home applications. 
