 Miaomiao Zhang Assistant Professor Lab Website Research Miaomiao Zhangs current researchfocuses on developing novel models at theintersectionof statistics, mathematics, and computer engineering in the fieldofmedical and biological imaging. More specifically, her current research projects include image registration/segmentation, statistical shape analysis to quantify anatomical changes, and machine learning with applications to neuroimaging and computer-assisted surgery. Bio Professor Zhang completed her PhD in computer science at theUniversity of Utah. She was a postdoctoral associate in theComputer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Professor Zhang received theMedical Image Computing and Computer Assisted Intervention (MICCAI) young scientist award in2014 and was a runner-up for theyoung scientist award in2016. She is a member of MICCAI society and an area chair for MICCAI 2018. She is also a program committee member in ShapeMI MICCAI 2018.: . . . 314-935-8632 zhang.m@wustl.edu Jolley Hall, Room 204. . PhD, University of Utah, 2015 MS, East China Normal University, 2010 BS, Henan Normal University, 2008. Google Scholar . Assistant Professor. Miaomiao Zhangs current researchfocuses on developing novel models at theintersectionof statistics, mathematics, and computer engineering in the fieldofmedical and biological imaging. More specifically, her current research projects include image registration/segmentation, statistical shape analysis to quantify anatomical changes, and machine learning with applications to neuroimaging and computer-assisted surgery.. Professor Zhang completed her PhD in computer science at theUniversity of Utah. She was a postdoctoral associate in theComputer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Professor Zhang received theMedical Image Computing and Computer Assisted Intervention (MICCAI) young scientist award in2014 and was a runner-up for theyoung scientist award in2016. She is a member of MICCAI society and an area chair for MICCAI 2018. She is also a program committee member in ShapeMI MICCAI 2018.. Analyzesanatomical shape changes to better understanddiseases. 
