 Skip to content The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Toggle navigation FIND PAGE Toggle navigation CLOSE Home About EECS Back About EECS Welcome to EECS Contact Information EECS Department Overview Video Facilities Facilities Min H. Kao Building Photo Gallery History Visitor Information Enrollment Data Min H. Kao EECS Department Bylaws Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Financial Aid ABET Goals Five-year BS/MS Program Honors Curriculum Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Award and Fellowship Information for Graduate Students Advising Advising Course Planning EECS Course Catalog Listings Schedule of Classes/Timetable Course Websites Research Back Research Areas of Research Areas of Research Affiliated Labs, Centers, and Institutes CURENT ICL NIMBioS Neuromorphic UT VolSec Technical Reports Library People Back People Faculty Full-Time Faculty (photos) Professor of Practice, Lecturer and Research (photos) Joint Faculty with ORNL & Adjunct Faculty Emeritus In Memoriam Business Office IT Staff Parts Store Mechanical Shop Advising Research Staff Industrial Advisory Board Student Organizations Dr. Min H. Kao Employment Opportunities News and Events Back News and Events Recent News Events Calendar Resources Back Resources Facilities Services EECS IT Support EECS IT Support EECS IT Knowledge Base Lab Resources EECS Facilities Statement Mechanical Shop EECS Parts Store Shipping and Receiving EECS Portal Faculty Senate Give to the Tickle College of Engineering Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Dr. Mongi Abidi Professor Contact Information Email: abidi@utk.edu Web: IRIS Mailing Address: Min H. Kao Building, Room 203 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Office Phone: 865-974-5454 Office Fax: 865-974-5483 Areas of Interest Image Processing Robotics Artificial Intelligence Education Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering, The University of Tennessee, Knoxville, 1986 M.S. in Electrical Engineering, The University of Tennessee, Knoxville, 1984 Principal Engineering degree in Electrical Engineering, The National Engineering School of Tunis, Tunisia, 1981 Background Dr. Mongi A. Abidi, Professor in the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department, directs activities in the Imaging, Robotics, and Intelligent Systems Laboratory. Dr. Abidi has been conducting research in the field of three-dimensional imaging, specifically in the areas of scene building, scene description, and data visualization. Dr. Abidi is also involved in the areas of robotic multisensing, landmark tracking and sensor calibration, data fusion and probabilistic reasoning, and enhancement of medical images. Since joining UTK as a faculty member in 1986, Dr. Abidi has acted as either principal investigator or co-principal investigator for research contracts totaling over $16 million. Dr. Abidi is currently acting as principal investigator for three programs. The first program is the 3D Imaging and Data Fusion for Robotic Manipulation and Inspection, part of the DOEs multi-university Research Program in Robotics. The second program is the 3D Imaging and Data Fusion for Automotive Simulation and Design, part of a multi-university program with the U.S. Army TACOM. The third program involves two projects, Gate-to-Gate Automated Video Tracking and Location and Operator Assisted Threat Assessment for Carry-on Luggage Inspection, both with National Safe Skies. In addition to his research duties, Dr. Abidi teaches senior and graduate courses at UTK in the fields of pattern recognition, image processing, computer vision, and robotics. He has developed three courses in image processing and robotics. He has also taught industrial courses in the areas of mathematical transforms for engineers, data fusion, fuzzy logic, and neural networks. Dr. Abidi is a member of Tau Beta Pi, Phi Kappa Phi, Eta Kappa Nu, and the Order of the Engineer. He received the First State Award in primary graduation, the First State Award in secondary graduation, and the First Presidential Principal Engineer Award. He holds memberships in the IEEE Computer Society, IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, IEEE Robotics and Automation Society, Pattern Recognition Society, Association of Computing Machinery, and the International Society of Optical Engineering. Dr. Abidi is the recipient of the following awards: 2002-2003 Dun & Bradstreet Whos Who in Executives and Business, 2002 United Whos Who in Empowering Executives and Professionals, 2002 Marquis Whos Who in America, Strathmores Lifetime Whos Who Award, 2001-2003 Philips Professorship Award, 2001 Science Alliance Faculty Award, 2001 Brooks Distinguished Professor Award, 1999-2001 Weston Fulton Professorship, 1997-2000 Magnavox Professorship, and 1995 Chancellors Award for Research and Creative Achievement. Dr. Abidi is author or co-author of over 200 publications in computer vision and robotics journals and conference proceedings. He is co-editor of the book Data Fusion in Robotics and Machine Intelligence, published by Academic Press in 1992 and co-editor of the following book chapters: Logical Combinatorial Pattern Recognition: A Review, Recent Research Developments in Pattern Recognition, Transworld Research Networks, 2002; Positron Emission Tomography: Image Filtering, Encyclopedia of Computer Science and Technology, Marcel Dekker, 1993; and A Regularized Solution to Multi-Dimensional Data Fusion, Data Fusion in Robotics and Machine Intelligence, Academic Press, 1992. Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Site Map Min H. Kao Building Suite 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Phone:865-974-3461 FAX:865-974-5483 General Information: eecs-info@utk.edu Graduate School Information: eecs-gradinfo@utk.edu Website Feedback: eecs-webteam@utk.edu The University of Tennessee The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Knoxville, Tennessee 37996 865-974-1000 Events Map A-Z Directory Apply Give to UT The flagship campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Tennessee Transfer Pathway . 
