 Skip to content The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Toggle navigation FIND PAGE Toggle navigation CLOSE Home About EECS Back About EECS Welcome to EECS Contact Information EECS Department Overview Video Facilities Facilities Min H. Kao Building Photo Gallery History Visitor Information Enrollment Data Min H. Kao EECS Department Bylaws Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Financial Aid ABET Goals Five-year BS/MS Program Honors Curriculum Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Award and Fellowship Information for Graduate Students Advising Advising Course Planning EECS Course Catalog Listings Schedule of Classes/Timetable Course Websites Research Back Research Areas of Research Areas of Research Affiliated Labs, Centers, and Institutes CURENT ICL NIMBioS Neuromorphic UT VolSec Technical Reports Library People Back People Faculty Full-Time Faculty (photos) Professor of Practice, Lecturer and Research (photos) Joint Faculty with ORNL & Adjunct Faculty Emeritus In Memoriam Business Office IT Staff Parts Store Mechanical Shop Advising Research Staff Industrial Advisory Board Student Organizations Dr. Min H. Kao Employment Opportunities News and Events Back News and Events Recent News Events Calendar Resources Back Resources Facilities Services EECS IT Support EECS IT Support EECS IT Knowledge Base Lab Resources EECS Facilities Statement Mechanical Shop EECS Parts Store Shipping and Receiving EECS Portal Faculty Senate Give to the Tickle College of Engineering Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Dr. Benjamin J. Blalock Professor Contact Information Email: bblalock@utk.edu Web: EECS Mailing Address: Min H. Kao Building, Room 503 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Office Phone: 865-974-0927 Office Fax: 865-974-5483 Areas of Interest Analog/mixed-signal integrated circuit design for extreme environments (both wide temperature and radiation) across multiple semiconductor technologies Ultra-low power (nano-Watt level) analog IC design for signal processing and computation Multi-channel monolithic instrumentation systems Gate drive integrated circuits for wide bandgap power electronics. Education BS in Electrical Engineering, The University of Tennessee, 1991 MS in Electrical & Computer Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, 1993 PhD in Electrical & Computer Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, 1996 PhD Dissertation: A 1-Volt CMOS Wide Dynamic Range Operational Amplifier Background Benjamin J. Blalock is the Blalock-Kennedy-Pierce Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Tennessee where he directs the Integrated Circuits and Systems Laboratory (ICASL). He received his B.S. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, in 1991 and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees, also in electrical engineering, from the Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, in 1993 and 1996 respectively. Dr. Blalock has received numerous teaching and research awards at UT, including: 2017 Alexander Prize for exceptional undergraduate teaching and distinguished scholarship, The University of Tennessee 2015 College of Engineering Outstanding Faculty Advisor Award, The University of Tennessee 2015 College of Engineering Research Achievement Award, The University of Tennessee Blalock-Kennedy-Pierce Professorship in Analog Electronics, July 2013-present 2011 College of Engineering Teaching Fellow 2009 Gonzalez Family Award for Excellence in Teaching His research focus at UT includesanalog/mixed-signal integrated circuit design for extreme environments (both wide temperature and radiation) across multiple semiconductor technologies; ultra-low power (nano-Watt level) analog IC design for signal processing and computation; multi-channel monolithic instrumentation systems; and gate drive integrated circuits for wide bandgap power electronics. Dr. Blalock has co-authored over 200 refereed papers. During the 2007 IEEE Nuclear Science and Radiation Effects Conference (NSREC) he taught a short course on Radiation Effects on Analog Integrated Circuits and Extreme Environment Design. He has also worked as an analog IC design consultant for Cypress Semiconductor, Concorde Microsystems, and Global Power Electronics. Dr. Blalock is a senior member of the IEEE. Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Site Map Min H. Kao Building Suite 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Phone:865-974-3461 FAX:865-974-5483 General Information: eecs-info@utk.edu Graduate School Information: eecs-gradinfo@utk.edu Website Feedback: eecs-webteam@utk.edu The University of Tennessee The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Knoxville, Tennessee 37996 865-974-1000 Events Map A-Z Directory Apply Give to UT The flagship campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Tennessee Transfer Pathway . 
