 Skip to content The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Toggle navigation FIND PAGE Toggle navigation CLOSE Home About EECS Back About EECS Welcome to EECS Contact Information EECS Department Overview Video Facilities Facilities Min H. Kao Building Photo Gallery History Visitor Information Enrollment Data Min H. Kao EECS Department Bylaws Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Financial Aid ABET Goals Five-year BS/MS Program Honors Curriculum Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Award and Fellowship Information for Graduate Students Advising Advising Course Planning EECS Course Catalog Listings Schedule of Classes/Timetable Course Websites Research Back Research Areas of Research Areas of Research Affiliated Labs, Centers, and Institutes CURENT ICL NIMBioS Neuromorphic UT VolSec Technical Reports Library People Back People Faculty Full-Time Faculty (photos) Professor of Practice, Lecturer and Research (photos) Joint Faculty with ORNL & Adjunct Faculty Emeritus In Memoriam Business Office IT Staff Parts Store Mechanical Shop Advising Research Staff Industrial Advisory Board Student Organizations Dr. Min H. Kao Employment Opportunities News and Events Back News and Events Recent News Events Calendar Resources Back Resources Facilities Services EECS IT Support EECS IT Support EECS IT Knowledge Base Lab Resources EECS Facilities Statement Mechanical Shop EECS Parts Store Shipping and Receiving EECS Portal Faculty Senate Give to the Tickle College of Engineering Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Dr. Mark Dean Interim Dean and Fisher Distinguished Professor Contact Information Email: markdean@utk.edu Web: EECS Mailing Address: Min H. Kao Building, Room 319 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Office Phone: 865-974-5784 Office Fax: 865-974-5483 Areas of Interest Advanced Computer Architectures cognitive system devices, structures, architectures and learning models, non-Von Neumann data-centric computer architectures and programming models Big Data Systems deep Q/A systems, evidence based delivery of information and services Computational Science improved utilization of high performance computing to support scientific study and exploration Education Ph.D. Electrical Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, CA (9/89 6/92) Thesis: STRiP, A Self-Timed RISC Processor Architecture Course work: Computer/processor architecture, VLSI design, and parallel system architecture Thesis Advisor: Dr. Mark Horowitz M.S. Electrical Engineering, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, FL (1/80 4/82) Thesis Project: Design of a Low-Cost Graphics Terminal B.S. Electrical Engineering, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN (9/75 9/79) Graduated with Highest Honors Background Dr. Mark E Dean is a John Fisher Distinguished Professor at the University of Tennessee College of Engineering. His research focus is in advanced computer architecture (beyond Von Neumann systems), data centric computing and computational sciences. Prior to joining UT, Dr. Dean was Chief Technology Officer of the Middle East and Africa for IBM and an IBM Fellow. In this role he was responsible for technical strategy, technical skills development and exploring new technology based solutions for the region. These responsibilities include the development of solutions specific for the emerging needs of the businesses and cultures in industry segments such as mobile services (banking, healthcare, education, government), natural resource management (oil, gas, mining, forest, water), cloud based business services, and security (fraud protection, risk management, privacy, cybersecurity). Dr. Dean was also vice president World Wide Strategy and Operations for IBM Research. In this role, he was responsible for setting the direction of IBMs overall Research Strategy across eight worldwide labs and leading the global operations and information systems teams. These responsibilities include management of the divisions business model, research strategy, hiring, university relations, internal/external recognition, personnel development, innovation initiatives and the divisions operations. During his career, Dr. Dean has developed all types of computer systems, from embedded systems to supercomputers, including testing of the first gigahertz CMOS microprocessor, and establishing the team that developed the Blue Gene supercomputer. He was also chief engineer for the development of the IBM PC/AT, ISA systems bus, PS/2 Model 70 & 80, the Color Graphics Adapter in the original IBM PC, and holds three of the nine patents for the original IBM PC. One invention the Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, which permitted add-on devices like the keyboard, disk drives and printers to be connected to the motherboard would earn election to the National Inventors Hall of Fame for Dean and colleague Dennis Moeller. Dr. Dean received a BSEE degree from the University of Tennessee in 1979, an MSEE degree from Florida Atlantic University in 1982, and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University in 1992. Dr. Deans most recent awards include: National Institute of Science Outstanding Scientist Award, member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, member of the National Academy of Engineering, IEEE Fellow, Black Engineering of the Year, the University of Tennessee COE Dougherty Award, member of the National Inventors Hall of Fame, and recipient of the Ronald H. Brown American Innovators Award. Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Site Map Min H. Kao Building Suite 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Phone:865-974-3461 FAX:865-974-5483 General Information: eecs-info@utk.edu Graduate School Information: eecs-gradinfo@utk.edu Website Feedback: eecs-webteam@utk.edu The University of Tennessee The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Knoxville, Tennessee 37996 865-974-1000 Events Map A-Z Directory Apply Give to UT The flagship campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Tennessee Transfer Pathway . 
