 Skip to content The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Toggle navigation FIND PAGE Toggle navigation CLOSE Home About EECS Back About EECS Welcome to EECS Contact Information EECS Department Overview Video Facilities Facilities Min H. Kao Building Photo Gallery History Visitor Information Enrollment Data Min H. Kao EECS Department Bylaws Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Financial Aid ABET Goals Five-year BS/MS Program Honors Curriculum Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Award and Fellowship Information for Graduate Students Advising Advising Course Planning EECS Course Catalog Listings Schedule of Classes/Timetable Course Websites Research Back Research Areas of Research Areas of Research Affiliated Labs, Centers, and Institutes CURENT ICL NIMBioS Neuromorphic UT VolSec Technical Reports Library People Back People Faculty Full-Time Faculty (photos) Professor of Practice, Lecturer and Research (photos) Joint Faculty with ORNL & Adjunct Faculty Emeritus In Memoriam Business Office IT Staff Parts Store Mechanical Shop Advising Research Staff Industrial Advisory Board Student Organizations Dr. Min H. Kao Employment Opportunities News and Events Back News and Events Recent News Events Calendar Resources Back Resources Facilities Services EECS IT Support EECS IT Support EECS IT Knowledge Base Lab Resources EECS Facilities Statement Mechanical Shop EECS Parts Store Shipping and Receiving EECS Portal Faculty Senate Give to the Tickle College of Engineering Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Dr. Austin Henley Assistant Professor Contact Information Email: azh@utk.edu Web: EECS Mailing Address: Min H. Kao Building, Room 353 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Office Phone: 865-974-8966 Office Fax: 865-974-5483 Areas of Interest Software engineering Human-computer interaction Developer productivity Education Ph.D., Computer Science, University of Memphis, 2018 M.S., Computer Science, University of Memphis, 2013 Background Dr. Austin Henley is an Assistant Professor in the EECS department at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville. He received his bachelors degree in 2011 from Austin Peay State University in Clarksville, Tennessee, before attending the University of Memphis where he received his masters in 2013 and Ph.D. in 2018, all in Computer Science. Dr. Henleys research focuses on the human aspects of software engineering. He conducts empirical studies to better understand the behavior of software developers, and then builds software tools to make developers more productive. In particular, his dissertation addressed problems developers face when navigating source code by extending code editors with more efficient affordances for navigation. He has applied his research to industrial settings during his five internships, which included Microsoft Research, National Instruments, and IBM Research. His current research interests include supporting collaborative software development as well as the learnability of software development tools. Towards being an effective teacher, Dr. Henley took a number of graduate-level Educational Psychology courses. He was able to apply this knowledge when he taught as an Instructor for an undergraduate Operating Systems course in 2016. Moreover, he was the departmental Graduate Student Association President which gave him ample experience in mentoring fellow graduate students. Moving forward, he strives to apply findings from CS Education research to his teaching to better equip students in their careers. Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Site Map Min H. Kao Building Suite 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Phone:865-974-3461 FAX:865-974-5483 General Information: eecs-info@utk.edu Graduate School Information: eecs-gradinfo@utk.edu Website Feedback: eecs-webteam@utk.edu The University of Tennessee The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Knoxville, Tennessee 37996 865-974-1000 Events Map A-Z Directory Apply Give to UT The flagship campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Tennessee Transfer Pathway . 
