 Skip to content The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Toggle navigation FIND PAGE Toggle navigation CLOSE Home About EECS Back About EECS Welcome to EECS Contact Information EECS Department Overview Video Facilities Facilities Min H. Kao Building Photo Gallery History Visitor Information Enrollment Data Min H. Kao EECS Department Bylaws Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Financial Aid ABET Goals Five-year BS/MS Program Honors Curriculum Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Award and Fellowship Information for Graduate Students Advising Advising Course Planning EECS Course Catalog Listings Schedule of Classes/Timetable Course Websites Research Back Research Areas of Research Areas of Research Affiliated Labs, Centers, and Institutes CURENT ICL NIMBioS Neuromorphic UT VolSec Technical Reports Library People Back People Faculty Full-Time Faculty (photos) Professor of Practice, Lecturer and Research (photos) Joint Faculty with ORNL & Adjunct Faculty Emeritus In Memoriam Business Office IT Staff Parts Store Mechanical Shop Advising Research Staff Industrial Advisory Board Student Organizations Dr. Min H. Kao Employment Opportunities News and Events Back News and Events Recent News Events Calendar Resources Back Resources Facilities Services EECS IT Support EECS IT Support EECS IT Knowledge Base Lab Resources EECS Facilities Statement Mechanical Shop EECS Parts Store Shipping and Receiving EECS Portal Faculty Senate Give to the Tickle College of Engineering Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Dr. Michael A. Langston Professor Contact Information Email: langston@tennessee.edu Web: EECS Mailing Address: Min H. Kao Building, Room 642 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Office Phone: 865-974-3534 Office Fax: 865-974-5483 Areas of Interest Big Data Analytics Graph Theoretical Algorithms Life Science Applications Education Ph.D. in Computer Science, Texas A&M University, 1981 Background Dr. Langstons current research interests include big data analytics, combinatorial optimization, computer science, data science, defense and life science applications, graph theoretical algorithms, high performance implementations, machine learning and statistical software. He is perhaps best known for his long-standing research on combinatorial algorithms, complexity theory and design paradigms for sequential and parallel computation. In recent years, his work has found broad application in computational biology and the study of health disparities. In addition to maintaining his research program, he regularly teaches courses on algorithm design, automata theory, fixed parameter tractability, graph theory and related subjects. Dr. Langston has authored over 400 journal articles, conference papers, book chapters and other reports. The National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the Department of Defense, the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency and a variety of other federal agencies have funded his work in the U.S. The Australian Research Council and the European Commission have supported his research overseas. He has served on an assortment of editorial boards, including the Association for Computing Machinerys flagship publication, Communications of the ACM. Recent awards include the College of Engineering Faculty Research Fellow Award, 2012, and the University of Tennessee Chancellors Award for Research and Creative Achievement, 2014. Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Site Map Min H. Kao Building Suite 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Phone:865-974-3461 FAX:865-974-5483 General Information: eecs-info@utk.edu Graduate School Information: eecs-gradinfo@utk.edu Website Feedback: eecs-webteam@utk.edu The University of Tennessee The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Knoxville, Tennessee 37996 865-974-1000 Events Map A-Z Directory Apply Give to UT The flagship campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Tennessee Transfer Pathway . 
