 Skip to content The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Toggle navigation FIND PAGE Toggle navigation CLOSE Home About EECS Back About EECS Welcome to EECS Contact Information EECS Department Overview Video Facilities Facilities Min H. Kao Building Photo Gallery History Visitor Information Enrollment Data Min H. Kao EECS Department Bylaws Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Financial Aid ABET Goals Five-year BS/MS Program Honors Curriculum Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Award and Fellowship Information for Graduate Students Advising Advising Course Planning EECS Course Catalog Listings Schedule of Classes/Timetable Course Websites Research Back Research Areas of Research Areas of Research Affiliated Labs, Centers, and Institutes CURENT ICL NIMBioS Neuromorphic UT VolSec Technical Reports Library People Back People Faculty Full-Time Faculty (photos) Professor of Practice, Lecturer and Research (photos) Joint Faculty with ORNL & Adjunct Faculty Emeritus In Memoriam Business Office IT Staff Parts Store Mechanical Shop Advising Research Staff Industrial Advisory Board Student Organizations Dr. Min H. Kao Employment Opportunities News and Events Back News and Events Recent News Events Calendar Resources Back Resources Facilities Services EECS IT Support EECS IT Support EECS IT Knowledge Base Lab Resources EECS Facilities Statement Mechanical Shop EECS Parts Store Shipping and Receiving EECS Portal Faculty Senate Give to the Tickle College of Engineering Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Dr. Bruce MacLennan Associate Professor Contact Information Email: maclennan@utk.edu Web: EECS Mailing Address: Min H. Kao Building, Room 550 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Office Phone: 865-974-0994 Office Fax: 865-974-5483 Areas of Interest Bio-inspired Computation Self-organization Algorithmic Nano-assembly Artificial Morphogenesis Education B.S. in Mathematics (with Honors), Florida State University, 1972 M.S. in Computer Science, Purdue University, 1974 Ph.D. in Computer Science, Purdue University, 1975 Background Dr. MacLennan joined Intel Corporation in 1975 where, as a Senior Software Engineer, he participated in the architectural design of the 8086and the iAPX-432 microprocessors. In 1979 he returned to academia, joining the Computer Science faculty of the Naval Postgraduate School(Monterey, CA), where he was Assistant Professor (1979-83), Associate Professor (1983-87), and Acting Chair (1984-85). At NPS heinvestigated novel models for massively parallel computing and artificial intelligence. Since 1987 he has been an Associate Professor in theDepartment of Computer Science (now Electrical Engineering and Computer Science) of the University of Tennessee, Knoxville. In the mid-80s, MacLennan redirected his research toward natural computation, that is, computation inspired by or occurring in nature. Onegoal has been to understand the representation and processing of information in the brains of humans and other animals and to investigatebrain-inspired computing technologies. This work is especially relevant to AI, but also to neuroscience, cognitive science, and philosophy, andso he is active in the interdisciplinary intersection of these research areas and collaborates with scholars in each of them. Since the mid-90s this research program has expanded to include self-organizing systems with very large numbers of physical components(e.g., the cells in a developing embryo) and the interaction of physical and computational processes. The latter includes the use ofcomputational principles in nanotechnology (algorithmic self-assembly) and the exploitation of novel physical processes for computation (post-Moores Law computing technologies). MacLennan has 100 refereed journal articles and book chapters, has authored two books (one in its third edition), and edited a third. In 2008,MacLennan was invited to become the founding Editor-in-Chief of the International Journal of Nanotechnology and Molecular Computation. Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Site Map Min H. Kao Building Suite 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Phone:865-974-3461 FAX:865-974-5483 General Information: eecs-info@utk.edu Graduate School Information: eecs-gradinfo@utk.edu Website Feedback: eecs-webteam@utk.edu The University of Tennessee The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Knoxville, Tennessee 37996 865-974-1000 Events Map A-Z Directory Apply Give to UT The flagship campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Tennessee Transfer Pathway . 
