 Skip to content The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Toggle navigation FIND PAGE Toggle navigation CLOSE Home About EECS Back About EECS Welcome to EECS Contact Information EECS Department Overview Video Facilities Facilities Min H. Kao Building Photo Gallery History Visitor Information Enrollment Data Min H. Kao EECS Department Bylaws Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Financial Aid ABET Goals Five-year BS/MS Program Honors Curriculum Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Award and Fellowship Information for Graduate Students Advising Advising Course Planning EECS Course Catalog Listings Schedule of Classes/Timetable Course Websites Research Back Research Areas of Research Areas of Research Affiliated Labs, Centers, and Institutes CURENT ICL NIMBioS Neuromorphic UT VolSec Technical Reports Library People Back People Faculty Full-Time Faculty (photos) Professor of Practice, Lecturer and Research (photos) Joint Faculty with ORNL & Adjunct Faculty Emeritus In Memoriam Business Office IT Staff Parts Store Mechanical Shop Advising Research Staff Industrial Advisory Board Student Organizations Dr. Min H. Kao Employment Opportunities News and Events Back News and Events Recent News Events Calendar Resources Back Resources Facilities Services EECS IT Support EECS IT Support EECS IT Knowledge Base Lab Resources EECS Facilities Statement Mechanical Shop EECS Parts Store Shipping and Receiving EECS Portal Faculty Senate Give to the Tickle College of Engineering Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Dr. Lynne E. Parker Professor Contact Information Email: leparker@utk.edu Web: EECS Mailing Address: Min H. Kao Building, Room 617 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Office Phone: 865-974-4394 Office Fax: 865-974-5483 Areas of Interest Distributed mobile robotics Human-robot interaction Distributed intelligence Sensor networks Machine learning Embedded systems Multi-agent systems Education Ph.D. in Computer Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1994 M.S. in Computer Science, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, 1988 B.S. in Computer Science, Tennessee Technological University, 1983 Background Dr. Lynne E. Parker, a native Knoxvillian, is a Professor in the EECS Department, having joined UTK in 2002. At UTK, she is the founder and director of the Distributed Intelligence Laboratory, which performs research in multi-robot systems, sensor networks, machine learning, and human-robot interaction. She is also a visiting researcher in the Computer Science and Mathematics Division at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL), where she worked as a Distinguished Research and Development Staff Member for several years prior to joining UTK. She is also Assistant Director of the UT/ORNL Science Alliance, principally responsible for managing the UT-ORNL Joint Directed Research and Development Program. Dr. Parker is a leading international researcher in the field of distributed intelligence, and has published over 100 articles, including five edited books on the topic of distributed robotics. For this research, she was awarded the 2000 PECASE Award (Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers). She is a Fellow of IEEE, selected for her contributions to distributed and heterogeneous multi-robot systems. She has served on numerous national and international advisory and review boards, including the National Research Councils Advisory Panel on Air and Ground Vehicle Technology and the NRCs Advisory Panel on Armor and Armaments, both of which oversee research at the Army Research Laboratory. She also served on the Strategic Advisory Commission for the European Commissions research program entitled Beyond Robotics, and frequently serves as a technical reviewer for the European Unions Information Society Technologies research programs. She has served as a Senior Editor of IEEE Transactions on Robotics, as well as an Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Robotics and Automation, IEEE Intelligent Systems Magazine, and the Swarm Intelligence journal. She serves on numerous international conference organization and program committees, and is an elected member of the Administrative Committee of the IEEE Robotics and Automation Society. Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Site Map Min H. Kao Building Suite 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Phone:865-974-3461 FAX:865-974-5483 General Information: eecs-info@utk.edu Graduate School Information: eecs-gradinfo@utk.edu Website Feedback: eecs-webteam@utk.edu The University of Tennessee The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Knoxville, Tennessee 37996 865-974-1000 Events Map A-Z Directory Apply Give to UT The flagship campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Tennessee Transfer Pathway . 
