 Skip to content The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Toggle navigation FIND PAGE Toggle navigation CLOSE Home About EECS Back About EECS Welcome to EECS Contact Information EECS Department Overview Video Facilities Facilities Min H. Kao Building Photo Gallery History Visitor Information Enrollment Data Min H. Kao EECS Department Bylaws Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Financial Aid ABET Goals Five-year BS/MS Program Honors Curriculum Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Award and Fellowship Information for Graduate Students Advising Advising Course Planning EECS Course Catalog Listings Schedule of Classes/Timetable Course Websites Research Back Research Areas of Research Areas of Research Affiliated Labs, Centers, and Institutes CURENT ICL NIMBioS Neuromorphic UT VolSec Technical Reports Library People Back People Faculty Full-Time Faculty (photos) Professor of Practice, Lecturer and Research (photos) Joint Faculty with ORNL & Adjunct Faculty Emeritus In Memoriam Business Office IT Staff Parts Store Mechanical Shop Advising Research Staff Industrial Advisory Board Student Organizations Dr. Min H. Kao Employment Opportunities News and Events Back News and Events Recent News Events Calendar Resources Back Resources Facilities Services EECS IT Support EECS IT Support EECS IT Knowledge Base Lab Resources EECS Facilities Statement Mechanical Shop EECS Parts Store Shipping and Receiving EECS Portal Faculty Senate Give to the Tickle College of Engineering Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Dr. Scott Ruoti Assistant Professor Contact Information Email: ruoti@utk.edu Web: TBD Mailing Address: Min H. Kao Building, Room 344 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Office Phone: 865-974-5449 Office Fax: 865-974-5483 Areas of Interest Systems security Web security Usable security Blockchain Education Ph.D. in Computer Science, Brigham Young University, 2016 Background Dr. Scott Ruoti is an assistant professor in the EECS department at the University of Tennessee. He received his Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from Brigham Young University in 2016. For the last two years, Dr. Ruoti has been a researcher at MIT Lincoln Laboratory. While there, he led a range of efforts, including acting as the chief architect for the Department of Homeland Securitys Cyber.gov program that is tasked with creating a next-generation cybersecurity architecture for all non-DoD federal departments and agencies. He also led a research team exploring non-cryptocurrency usages for Blockchain technology. Prior to his time at MIT Lincoln Laboratory he had worked at Microsoft, Microsoft Research, Google, Blue Coat Systems (Symantec), and Sandia National Laboratory. Dr. Ruoti researches computer security and privacy, human-computer interaction, and usable security and privacy. In particular, he is interested in researching how systems can be designed to ensure correct and secure operation when deployed to actual users. In practice, Dr. Ruoti tries to conduct holistic, interdisciplinary research that not only creates novel systems, but also addresses real-world human needs. His dissertation focused on designing email systems that are both secure and easy-to-use, especially for novice users. In his work, he designed a secure email system that outperforms other similar systems in terms of usability, ranking in the top 15% among the hundreds of software systems subjected to a standard usability test. His design reduced user errors from 25% to 2%, and increased user understanding and trust in secure email. Dr. Ruoti is also interested in exploring how to increase the security of password-based authentication and two-factor authentication, both in terms of theoretical security and real-world security. He is also researching using Blockchain technology to secure non-cryptocurrency systems, with an emphasis on low-connectivity environmentsfor example, using Blockchain technology to enable multi-national and multi-organization information sharing for humanitarian aid and disaster relief efforts. Finally, Dr. Ruoti is interested in exploring how to help developers create secure software. Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Site Map Min H. Kao Building Suite 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Phone:865-974-3461 FAX:865-974-5483 General Information: eecs-info@utk.edu Graduate School Information: eecs-gradinfo@utk.edu Website Feedback: eecs-webteam@utk.edu The University of Tennessee The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Knoxville, Tennessee 37996 865-974-1000 Events Map A-Z Directory Apply Give to UT The flagship campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Tennessee Transfer Pathway . 
