 Skip to content The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Toggle navigation FIND PAGE Toggle navigation CLOSE Home About EECS Back About EECS Welcome to EECS Contact Information EECS Department Overview Video Facilities Facilities Min H. Kao Building Photo Gallery History Visitor Information Enrollment Data Min H. Kao EECS Department Bylaws Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Financial Aid ABET Goals Five-year BS/MS Program Honors Curriculum Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Award and Fellowship Information for Graduate Students Advising Advising Course Planning EECS Course Catalog Listings Schedule of Classes/Timetable Course Websites Research Back Research Areas of Research Areas of Research Affiliated Labs, Centers, and Institutes CURENT ICL NIMBioS Neuromorphic UT VolSec Technical Reports Library People Back People Faculty Full-Time Faculty (photos) Professor of Practice, Lecturer and Research (photos) Joint Faculty with ORNL & Adjunct Faculty Emeritus In Memoriam Business Office IT Staff Parts Store Mechanical Shop Advising Research Staff Industrial Advisory Board Student Organizations Dr. Min H. Kao Employment Opportunities News and Events Back News and Events Recent News Events Calendar Resources Back Resources Facilities Services EECS IT Support EECS IT Support EECS IT Knowledge Base Lab Resources EECS Facilities Statement Mechanical Shop EECS Parts Store Shipping and Receiving EECS Portal Faculty Senate Give to the Tickle College of Engineering Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Dr. Amir Sadovnik Assistant Professor Contact Information Email: asadovnik@utk.edu Web: EECS Mailing Address: Min H. Kao Building, Room 352 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Office Phone: 865-974-3076 Office Fax: 865-974-5483 Areas of Interest Computer Vision Machine Learning Natural Language Generation Human Computer Interaction Education Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, 2014 B.Eng. in Electrical and Computer Engineering, The Cooper Union, New York, NY, 2009 Background Amir Sadovnik is an assistant professor in the EECS department at the University of Tennessee. He received his PhD from the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Cornell University and was advised by Prof. Tsuhan Chen as member of the Advanced Multimedia Processing Lab. Prior to arriving at Cornell he received his Bachelors in Electrical and Computer Engineering from The Cooper Union. Prior to arriving at UT, Amir was an assistant professor at Lafayette College in Easton, PA. He spent four years mostly teaching undergraduate level courses in addition to working on undergraduate research. During his time at Lafayette he taught a variety of both introductory and advanced computer science courses. In addition, he helped redesign the introductory computer science course to make it more inclusive and was an active advocate for women in the field. His research in the field of computer vision has been mostly driven by the way humans understand and interact with images. This human centered view has led him to work on new and exciting projects, which utilize tools from different fields (such as computer vision, signal processing, natural language processing, machine learning, etc.) and apply them in new ways. His current research is mostly centered on using deep neural networks for tasks which tend to be more subjective such as evoked emotions, face similarity, and fashion compatibility. The subjective nature of these problems presents many interesting obstacles and opportunities which he explores in his research. Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Site Map Min H. Kao Building Suite 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Phone:865-974-3461 FAX:865-974-5483 General Information: eecs-info@utk.edu Graduate School Information: eecs-gradinfo@utk.edu Website Feedback: eecs-webteam@utk.edu The University of Tennessee The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Knoxville, Tennessee 37996 865-974-1000 Events Map A-Z Directory Apply Give to UT The flagship campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Tennessee Transfer Pathway . 
