 Skip to content The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Toggle navigation FIND PAGE Toggle navigation CLOSE Home About EECS Back About EECS Welcome to EECS Contact Information EECS Department Overview Video Facilities Facilities Min H. Kao Building Photo Gallery History Visitor Information Enrollment Data Min H. Kao EECS Department Bylaws Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Financial Aid ABET Goals Five-year BS/MS Program Honors Curriculum Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Award and Fellowship Information for Graduate Students Advising Advising Course Planning EECS Course Catalog Listings Schedule of Classes/Timetable Course Websites Research Back Research Areas of Research Areas of Research Affiliated Labs, Centers, and Institutes CURENT ICL NIMBioS Neuromorphic UT VolSec Technical Reports Library People Back People Faculty Full-Time Faculty (photos) Professor of Practice, Lecturer and Research (photos) Joint Faculty with ORNL & Adjunct Faculty Emeritus In Memoriam Business Office IT Staff Parts Store Mechanical Shop Advising Research Staff Industrial Advisory Board Student Organizations Dr. Min H. Kao Employment Opportunities News and Events Back News and Events Recent News Events Calendar Resources Back Resources Facilities Services EECS IT Support EECS IT Support EECS IT Knowledge Base Lab Resources EECS Facilities Statement Mechanical Shop EECS Parts Store Shipping and Receiving EECS Portal Faculty Senate Give to the Tickle College of Engineering Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Dr. Max Schuchard Assistant Professor Contact Information Email: mschucha@utk.edu Web: EECS Mailing Address: Min H. Kao Building, Room 345 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Office Phone: 865-974-8061 Office Fax: 865-974-5483 Areas of Interest Computer security and privacy Censorship circumvention systems Crypto-currencies Education PhD in Computer Science, University of Minnesota, 2016 BS in Computer Science, University of Minnesota, 2007 Background Dr. Max Schuchard is originally from South Dakota, and he earned his BS in Computer Science at the University of Minnesota in 2007. After receiving his bachelors, he worked for two years with EPIC Systems, an electronic medical records company in Madison, Wisconsin doing research and development. He subsequently returned to the University of Minnesota for his Ph.D., again in Computer Science, completing it in June 2016. While he was a Ph.D. student he worked with a small defense contracting firm in Minneapolis-St. Paul called Smart Information Flow Technologies (SIFT). He says the coolest thing he did there was participate in DARPAs Cyber Grand Challenge, which was a competition to build software which would autonomously find vulnerabilities in other pieces of software, demonstrate the vulnerability, and then generate a patch for it, all without human intervention. He has now come to the University of Tennessee as an assistant professor. Dr. Schuchard researches computer security and privacy. His research covers many specific areas, but in general it looks at both how adversaries can disrupt a broad range of computer systems tasked with delivering your data and what privacy concerns there are when adversaries play games with those systems in order to learn more about the people using them. His thesis centered around the security of the Internets routing infrastructure- the computers that glue together the Internet, helping your data get from you to its destination. Specifically, it looked at how an adversary who wanted to disrupt large portions of the Internet could attack routers which speak the Boarder Gateway Protocol (BGP) to each other. Dr. Schuchard also asks similar questions about censorship circumvention systems. These are systems that help individuals, living in nations where authorities restrict what content can be accessed, achieve free and unfettered access to the Internet. His research approaches these systems from the perspective of a censoring entity, looking for ways that the systems can be disrupted, or worse yet, their uses unmasked and identified. The goal is to find such flaws in the systems before repressive nation-states do and fix them, resulting in more robust systems and a higher degree of safety for their users. Lastly, Dr. Schuchard researches crypto-currencies such as Bitcoin, Etherium, and ZCash. He is mostly interested in the privacy implications of such systems, but he also works to try to understand how the exchange markets of these systems behave, or dont behave, in many instances. Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Site Map Min H. Kao Building Suite 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Phone:865-974-3461 FAX:865-974-5483 General Information: eecs-info@utk.edu Graduate School Information: eecs-gradinfo@utk.edu Website Feedback: eecs-webteam@utk.edu The University of Tennessee The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Knoxville, Tennessee 37996 865-974-1000 Events Map A-Z Directory Apply Give to UT The flagship campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Tennessee Transfer Pathway . 
