 Skip to content The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Toggle navigation FIND PAGE Toggle navigation CLOSE Home About EECS Back About EECS Welcome to EECS Contact Information EECS Department Overview Video Facilities Facilities Min H. Kao Building Photo Gallery History Visitor Information Enrollment Data Min H. Kao EECS Department Bylaws Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Financial Aid ABET Goals Five-year BS/MS Program Honors Curriculum Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Award and Fellowship Information for Graduate Students Advising Advising Course Planning EECS Course Catalog Listings Schedule of Classes/Timetable Course Websites Research Back Research Areas of Research Areas of Research Affiliated Labs, Centers, and Institutes CURENT ICL NIMBioS Neuromorphic UT VolSec Technical Reports Library People Back People Faculty Full-Time Faculty (photos) Professor of Practice, Lecturer and Research (photos) Joint Faculty with ORNL & Adjunct Faculty Emeritus In Memoriam Business Office IT Staff Parts Store Mechanical Shop Advising Research Staff Industrial Advisory Board Student Organizations Dr. Min H. Kao Employment Opportunities News and Events Back News and Events Recent News Events Calendar Resources Back Resources Facilities Services EECS IT Support EECS IT Support EECS IT Knowledge Base Lab Resources EECS Facilities Statement Mechanical Shop EECS Parts Store Shipping and Receiving EECS Portal Faculty Senate Give to the Tickle College of Engineering Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Dr. Michela Taufer Dongarra Professor Contact Information Email: taufer@utk.edu Web: GCLab Mailing Address: Min H. Kao Building, Room 620 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Office Phone: 865-974-9952 Office Fax: 865-974-5483 Areas of Interest High Performance Computing Scientific Applications And Their Programmability On Multi-Core And Many-Core Platforms Numerical Reproducibility And Stability Of Multithreaded Applications Performance Analysis, Modeling, And Optimization Of Multi-Scale Applications Cloud Computing And Volunteer Computing Big Data Analytics And MapReduce Education PhD in Computer Science, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Zurich, Switzerland, 2000 MS in Computer Engineering, University of Padua, Italy, 1996 Background Michela Taufer is an ACM Distinguished Scientist. She was a J.P. Morgan Chase Scholar at the University of Delaware where she led the Global Computing Lab to promote the use of high performance computing to advance sciences. Michela Taufer joined the University of Delaware in 2007 where she was promoted to associate professor with tenure in 2012 and full professor in 2017. She earned her MS in Computer Engineering from the University of Padova and her Ph.D. in Computer Science from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH). She was a post-doctoral research supported by the La Jolla Interfaces in Science Training Program (also called LJIS) at UC San Diego and The Scripps Research Institute. Before she joined the University of Delaware, Michela was faculty in Computer Science at the University of Texas at El Paso. Michela has a long history of interdisciplinary work with high-profile computational biophysics groups in several research and academic institutions. Her research interests include software applications and their advance programmability in heterogeneous computing (i.e., multi-core platforms and GPUs); cloud computing and volunteer computing; and performance analysis, modeling and optimization of multi-scale applications. She has been serving as the principal investigator of several NSF collaborative projects. She also has significant experience in mentoring a diverse population of students on interdisciplinary research. Michelas training expertise includes efforts to spread high-performance computing participation in undergraduate education and research as well as efforts to increase the interest and participation of diverse populations in interdisciplinary studies. Michela has served on numerous IEEE program committees (SC and IPDPS among others) and has reviewed for most of the leading journals in parallel computing. She served as the IEEE Cluster 2015 General co-Chair and the IEEE IPDPS 2017 General Chair. She is the ACM/IEEE SC19 General Chair. Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Site Map Min H. Kao Building Suite 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Phone:865-974-3461 FAX:865-974-5483 General Information: eecs-info@utk.edu Graduate School Information: eecs-gradinfo@utk.edu Website Feedback: eecs-webteam@utk.edu The University of Tennessee The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Knoxville, Tennessee 37996 865-974-1000 Events Map A-Z Directory Apply Give to UT The flagship campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Tennessee Transfer Pathway . 
