 Skip to content The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Toggle navigation FIND PAGE Toggle navigation CLOSE Home About EECS Back About EECS Welcome to EECS Contact Information EECS Department Overview Video Facilities Facilities Min H. Kao Building Photo Gallery History Visitor Information Enrollment Data Min H. Kao EECS Department Bylaws Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Financial Aid ABET Goals Five-year BS/MS Program Honors Curriculum Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Award and Fellowship Information for Graduate Students Advising Advising Course Planning EECS Course Catalog Listings Schedule of Classes/Timetable Course Websites Research Back Research Areas of Research Areas of Research Affiliated Labs, Centers, and Institutes CURENT ICL NIMBioS Neuromorphic UT VolSec Technical Reports Library People Back People Faculty Full-Time Faculty (photos) Professor of Practice, Lecturer and Research (photos) Joint Faculty with ORNL & Adjunct Faculty Emeritus In Memoriam Business Office IT Staff Parts Store Mechanical Shop Advising Research Staff Industrial Advisory Board Student Organizations Dr. Min H. Kao Employment Opportunities News and Events Back News and Events Recent News Events Calendar Resources Back Resources Facilities Services EECS IT Support EECS IT Support EECS IT Knowledge Base Lab Resources EECS Facilities Statement Mechanical Shop EECS Parts Store Shipping and Receiving EECS Portal Faculty Senate Give to the Tickle College of Engineering Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Dr. Fei Fred Wang Professor and Condra Chair of Excellence in Power Electronics, CURENT Technical Director Contact Information Email: fred.wang@utk.edu Web: CURENT Mailing Address: Min H. Kao Building, Room 519 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Office Phone: 865-974-2146 Office Fax: 865-974-5483 Areas of Interest Power Electronics Power Systems Motor Drives Education Ph.D. from University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 1990 M.S. from University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 1985 B.S. from Xian Jiaotong University, China, 1982 Background Dr. Wang holds the Condra Chair of Excellence in Power Electronics and is a Professor in Electrical Engineering at The University of Tennessee, Knoxville. He also has a joint appointment with Oak Ridge National Lab. He is a founding member and the Technical Director of the NSF-DOE Engineering Research Center CURENT. He is conducting research on: design, modeling, control, and integration of advanced power electronics converters; motor drives; wide bandgap device characterization, modeling, packaging, control, and application; power electronics application to transportation, renewable energy and utility power systems. Dr. Wang has authored and coauthored over 400 refereed publications, one book, four book chapters, holds 15 US patents, and is a Fellow of IEEE. He is newly inducted as a Fellow of National Academy of Inventors. At UTK, he has led or participated in more than 35 projects, totaling more than $46M, with personal share more than $12M. He has advised 9 Ph.D. and 3 M.S. students to completion. Has also supervised several post-doc researchers and hosted more than 30 visiting students and faculty. Dr. Wang received his B.S.E.E. from Xian Jiaotong University, Xian, China in 1982. In 1985 and 1990, he received his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees, respectively, in Electrical Engineering from University of Southern California (USC), Los Angeles, California. He worked as a research scientist at USCs electric power lab from 1990 to 1992. His study and research at USC included power system transients and insulation coordination, power equipment diagnosis, and electromagnetic field effects and shielding. Dr. Wang joined GE Power Systems Engineering in Schenectady, New York as an Application Engineer in 1992. From 1992-1994, he was involved in numerous projects including TCSC and other FACTS applications, SMES, HVDC, railway electrification, steel mill VAR and harmonic compensation. After a short stint as a marketing engineer in China for GE Power Systems, Dr. Wang became a senior development engineer at GE Drive Systems, Salem, VA in 1994. From 1994-2000, he participated and made key contributions in the development of GEs cycloconverter main drive, and Innovation Series medium voltage drives the worlds first three-level NPC mega-watt medium voltage PWM drives based on HVIGBT and IGCT. He was a main developer of the synchronous machine drive control algorithm. He developed the grid-interface control, robust modulation and neutral-point control, motor shaft voltage and bearing current mitigation, and converter protection schemes for the three-level PWM drives. In 2000, he joined GE Corporate R&D, Schenectady, New York as a program manager, responsible for establishing the Electrical Systems Technology Program in Shanghai, China. Dr. Wang worked at the Center for Power Electronics Systems (CPES), Virginia Tech from 2001 to 2009, first as a research associate professor and became an associate professor in 2004. From 2003 to 2009, he also served as the CPES Technical Director. At CPES, Dr. Wangs research focused on high power electronic converters and systems for industrial motor drives, more electric airplanes, all electric ships, oil and gas, and renewable and distributed energy systems. He led or participated in morethan 30 projects totaling $11M, with personal share more than $5M. He advised and co-advised 10 Ph.D. and 8 MS students to completion and hosted 6 visiting faculty and students. Dr. Wang actively participates in IEEE activities and is a member of Power Electronics, Power and Energy, Industry Applications and Industrial Electronics Societies. He is an associate editor of IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics. He participated and led in developing three IEEE Standards on power electronics systems. He has received seven prize paper awards from IEEE IAS. He also received Dushman award in 1998, the highest award for best team technical work in GE. He is a three-time recipient of TCE Faculty Research Achievement Awards. Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Site Map Min H. Kao Building Suite 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Phone:865-974-3461 FAX:865-974-5483 General Information: eecs-info@utk.edu Graduate School Information: eecs-gradinfo@utk.edu Website Feedback: eecs-webteam@utk.edu The University of Tennessee The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Knoxville, Tennessee 37996 865-974-1000 Events Map A-Z Directory Apply Give to UT The flagship campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Tennessee Transfer Pathway . 
