 Skip to content The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Toggle navigation FIND PAGE Toggle navigation CLOSE Home About EECS Back About EECS Welcome to EECS Contact Information EECS Department Overview Video Facilities Facilities Min H. Kao Building Photo Gallery History Visitor Information Enrollment Data Min H. Kao EECS Department Bylaws Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Financial Aid ABET Goals Five-year BS/MS Program Honors Curriculum Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Award and Fellowship Information for Graduate Students Advising Advising Course Planning EECS Course Catalog Listings Schedule of Classes/Timetable Course Websites Research Back Research Areas of Research Areas of Research Affiliated Labs, Centers, and Institutes CURENT ICL NIMBioS Neuromorphic UT VolSec Technical Reports Library People Back People Faculty Full-Time Faculty (photos) Professor of Practice, Lecturer and Research (photos) Joint Faculty with ORNL & Adjunct Faculty Emeritus In Memoriam Business Office IT Staff Parts Store Mechanical Shop Advising Research Staff Industrial Advisory Board Student Organizations Dr. Min H. Kao Employment Opportunities News and Events Back News and Events Recent News Events Calendar Resources Back Resources Facilities Services EECS IT Support EECS IT Support EECS IT Knowledge Base Lab Resources EECS Facilities Statement Mechanical Shop EECS Parts Store Shipping and Receiving EECS Portal Faculty Senate Give to the Tickle College of Engineering Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Dr. Dan Wilson Assistant Professor Contact Information Email: dwilso81@utk.edu Web: EECS Mailing Address: Min H. Kao Building, Room 641 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Office Phone: 865-974-5468 Office Fax: 865-974-5483 Areas of Interest Model reduction of nonlinear dynamical systems Limit cycle oscillators Optimal control Neuroscientific and cardiological applications Education Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering, University of California, Santa Barbara, 2016 B.S. in Mechanical Engineering, University of Washington, 2011 B.A. in Natural and Mathematical Sciences, Whitman College, 2011 Background Dr. Dan Wilson holds a Ph.D. (2016) in Mechanical engineering from the University of California, Santa Barbara. He received a B.S. (2011) from the University of Washington in Mechanical Engineering and a B.A. (2011) from Whitman College in Natural and Mathematical Sciences. Most recently, he was a National Science Foundation Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the University of Pittsburgh. Using tools from dynamical systems and control theory, Dans research focuses on understanding the mechanisms of biological dysfunction in order to develop better treatments than those that are currently available. A significant focus of this research is on the development of model reduction techniques that can be used to reduce the dimensionality of complicated biological models so that further analytical progress can be made on problems that would otherwise be intractable from both an analytical and system control perspective. Current applications of interest include the development of control strategies to eliminate and prevent arrhythmias that ultimately lead to cardiac arrest, a leading cause of death in industrialized nations. Also of interest is the treatment of neurological disorders characterized by excessive synchronization of neural firing patterns where the ultimate goal is to develop better Deep Brain Stimulation protocols for patients afflicted with Parkinsons disease. Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Site Map Min H. Kao Building Suite 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Phone:865-974-3461 FAX:865-974-5483 General Information: eecs-info@utk.edu Graduate School Information: eecs-gradinfo@utk.edu Website Feedback: eecs-webteam@utk.edu The University of Tennessee The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Knoxville, Tennessee 37996 865-974-1000 Events Map A-Z Directory Apply Give to UT The flagship campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Tennessee Transfer Pathway . 
