 Skip to content The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Toggle navigation FIND PAGE Toggle navigation CLOSE Home About EECS Back About EECS Welcome to EECS Contact Information EECS Department Overview Video Facilities Facilities Min H. Kao Building Photo Gallery History Visitor Information Enrollment Data Min H. Kao EECS Department Bylaws Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Financial Aid ABET Goals Five-year BS/MS Program Honors Curriculum Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Award and Fellowship Information for Graduate Students Advising Advising Course Planning EECS Course Catalog Listings Schedule of Classes/Timetable Course Websites Research Back Research Areas of Research Areas of Research Affiliated Labs, Centers, and Institutes CURENT ICL NIMBioS Neuromorphic UT VolSec Technical Reports Library People Back People Faculty Full-Time Faculty (photos) Professor of Practice, Lecturer and Research (photos) Joint Faculty with ORNL & Adjunct Faculty Emeritus In Memoriam Business Office IT Staff Parts Store Mechanical Shop Advising Research Staff Industrial Advisory Board Student Organizations Dr. Min H. Kao Employment Opportunities News and Events Back News and Events Recent News Events Calendar Resources Back Resources Facilities Services EECS IT Support EECS IT Support EECS IT Knowledge Base Lab Resources EECS Facilities Statement Mechanical Shop EECS Parts Store Shipping and Receiving EECS Portal Faculty Senate Give to the Tickle College of Engineering Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Mr. Fred Martin Lecturer Contact Information Email: fmarti15@vols.utk.edu Mailing Address: 501 Min H. Kao Building 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Cell Phone: 865-313-6018 Office Fax: 865-974-5483 Areas of Interest Circuit Theory and Design EM Field Theory Controls (PID Closed Loop Controls, PLC, HMI, and Embedded Controls) Signal Integrity (SI) and High Speed Interconnects EMC (Electromagnetic Compatibility) and SI Interactions Education MS in Electrical Engineering, The University of Tennessee, 1973 BS in Electrical Engineering, The University of Tennessee, 1971 BS in Mathematics, East Tennessee State University, 1970 Background Mr. Fred L. Martin is a lecturer in the Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science of the University of Tennessee and a registered patent agent with the USPTO. Mr. Martin is also an inventor with over 10 core patents and over 50 foreign and international patents. He is also a lifelong learner. Mr. Martin received his B.S. Degree in Mathematics from East Tennessee State University in association with the University of Tennessee Knoxville in 1970 and a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering in 1971 from the University of Tennessee Knoxville. He also received a M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering in 1973 from the University of Tennessee Knoxville. As a lifelong learner, he has aggressively pursued knowledge associated with research and development activities in industry, supplementary university courses, various symposiums; including IEEE EMC and Global EMC University, and received specialized training from world class scientists. Mr. Martin has been a practicing engineer, VP of Engineering, Director of R&D, and a high tech division director for a $5B corporation comprising an illustrious 40+ year career. As a consultant for Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, IL; Mr. Martin became a preferred vendor of engineering services including controls (PID closed Loop controls, PLC, HMI, and embedded controls) provided to Corporate Engineering and multiple divisions including liaison services involving national and international travel. Recently, Mr. Martin consulted with CMD Corporation, Appleton, WI; diagnosing and solving static electric field issues with high speed plastic bag manufacturing systems. Some of Mr. Martins accomplishments regarding research and development include the worlds first microprocessor controlled CIP system, the worlds first full coverage spherical inkjet printing machine (patented), high speed extremely thin (0.013) and flat transmission lines, and the first energy limiting (ELCI) electrical safety device (patented and UL listed) for home wiring systems. Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Site Map Min H. Kao Building Suite 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Phone:865-974-3461 FAX:865-974-5483 General Information: eecs-info@utk.edu Graduate School Information: eecs-gradinfo@utk.edu Website Feedback: eecs-webteam@utk.edu The University of Tennessee The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Knoxville, Tennessee 37996 865-974-1000 Events Map A-Z Directory Apply Give to UT The flagship campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Tennessee Transfer Pathway . 
