 Skip to content The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Toggle navigation FIND PAGE Toggle navigation CLOSE Home About EECS Back About EECS Welcome to EECS Contact Information EECS Department Overview Video Facilities Facilities Min H. Kao Building Photo Gallery History Visitor Information Enrollment Data Min H. Kao EECS Department Bylaws Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Financial Aid ABET Goals Five-year BS/MS Program Honors Curriculum Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Award and Fellowship Information for Graduate Students Advising Advising Course Planning EECS Course Catalog Listings Schedule of Classes/Timetable Course Websites Research Back Research Areas of Research Areas of Research Affiliated Labs, Centers, and Institutes CURENT ICL NIMBioS Neuromorphic UT VolSec Technical Reports Library People Back People Faculty Full-Time Faculty (photos) Professor of Practice, Lecturer and Research (photos) Joint Faculty with ORNL & Adjunct Faculty Emeritus In Memoriam Business Office IT Staff Parts Store Mechanical Shop Advising Research Staff Industrial Advisory Board Student Organizations Dr. Min H. Kao Employment Opportunities News and Events Back News and Events Recent News Events Calendar Resources Back Resources Facilities Services EECS IT Support EECS IT Support EECS IT Knowledge Base Lab Resources EECS Facilities Statement Mechanical Shop EECS Parts Store Shipping and Receiving EECS Portal Faculty Senate Give to the Tickle College of Engineering Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Dr. J. Douglas Birdwell Contact Information Email: birdwell@utk.edu Mailing Address: Min H. Kao Building, Room 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Office Phone: 865-974-3461 Office Fax: 865-974-5483 Areas of Interest Control Systems Information Processing High Performance Databases Computers Data Mining Bioinformatics Education B.S. in Electrical Engineering, The University of Tennessee, 1974 M.S. in Electrical Engineering, The University of Tennessee, 1974 Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1978 Ph.D. Thesis: On Reliable Control System Designs Thesis Supervisor: Prof. Michael Athans Readers: Prof. Alan Willsky, Prof. Nils R. Sandell, Dr. David A. Castanon Background Dr. J. Douglas Birdwell is a retired Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at The University of Tennessee in Knoxville, TN. He received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in Electrical Engineering at the University of Tennessee in 1974. He received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from M.I.T. in 1978, specializing in reliable control systems design. He joined the faculty at UT in 1978, and is presently the director of the Laboratory for Information Technologies, which develops secure distributed information systems and analysis tools for counternarcotics and other law enforcement agencies. He has extensive experience in the following areas: computer hardware and software applications development control systems signal processing and artificial intelligence, including inductive inference of dynamic signal processing structures for signal IDification intelligent process supervision CAD applications in control automated power distribution system analysis and reconfiguration inductive machine learning methods for modeling and real-time control categorical approaches to manipulations of stochastic decision trees distributed intelligent structures for real-time control modeling of C3 systems real-time intelligent control of power electronic inverters for adjustable speed drives He has over 100 publications in these areas and has directed in excess of $4M externally sponsored research and development projects at the University. He is a Fellow of the IEEE and a member of the Board of Governors (through 2001) and former Secretary-Administrator on Executive Committee for the IEEE Control Systems Society. He has served as an Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, as Program Co-chair of the 1996 CDC held in Kobe, Japan, and as the General Chair of the 1998 CDC in Tampa, FL, USA. He is a member of the Tau Beta Pi, Eta Kappa Nu, and Sigma Xi honor societies. Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Site Map Min H. Kao Building Suite 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Phone:865-974-3461 FAX:865-974-5483 General Information: eecs-info@utk.edu Graduate School Information: eecs-gradinfo@utk.edu Website Feedback: eecs-webteam@utk.edu The University of Tennessee The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Knoxville, Tennessee 37996 865-974-1000 Events Map A-Z Directory Apply Give to UT The flagship campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Tennessee Transfer Pathway . 
