 Skip to content The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Toggle navigation FIND PAGE Toggle navigation CLOSE Home About EECS Back About EECS Welcome to EECS Contact Information EECS Department Overview Video Facilities Facilities Min H. Kao Building Photo Gallery History Visitor Information Enrollment Data Min H. Kao EECS Department Bylaws Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Financial Aid ABET Goals Five-year BS/MS Program Honors Curriculum Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Award and Fellowship Information for Graduate Students Advising Advising Course Planning EECS Course Catalog Listings Schedule of Classes/Timetable Course Websites Research Back Research Areas of Research Areas of Research Affiliated Labs, Centers, and Institutes CURENT ICL NIMBioS Neuromorphic UT VolSec Technical Reports Library People Back People Faculty Full-Time Faculty (photos) Professor of Practice, Lecturer and Research (photos) Joint Faculty with ORNL & Adjunct Faculty Emeritus In Memoriam Business Office IT Staff Parts Store Mechanical Shop Advising Research Staff Industrial Advisory Board Student Organizations Dr. Min H. Kao Employment Opportunities News and Events Back News and Events Recent News Events Calendar Resources Back Resources Facilities Services EECS IT Support EECS IT Support EECS IT Knowledge Base Lab Resources EECS Facilities Statement Mechanical Shop EECS Parts Store Shipping and Receiving EECS Portal Faculty Senate Give to the Tickle College of Engineering Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Dr. Donald W. Bouldin Contact Information Email: dbouldin@utk.edu Web: Microelectronic Systems News Web: Homepage Mailing Address: 612 Good Springs Road Brentwood, TN 37027 Phone: 615-478-8192 Areas of Interest MicroelectronicSystems Design System-on-Chip Design VLSI, ASICs, FPGAs, MCMs, Synthesis Reconfigurable Computing Education PhD in Electrical Engineering, Vanderbilt University, 1975 MS in Electrical Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, 1968 BE in Electrical Engineering, Vanderbilt University, 1967 Background Prof. Bouldin served two years as Chairman of the Technical Committee on VLSI for the IEEE Computer Society. He received the TAB Pioneer Award from the IEEE for his participation in CompuSat-88, a tutorial videoconference that was broadcast to over 6000 engineers in North America. He has received other awards over the years for outstanding teaching at the university and meritorious service to the IEEE. In addition to teaching VLSI systems design classes at the University of Tennessee, he has served as an instructor for eight faculty enhancement short courses on VLSI and FPGAs sponsored by the National Science Foundation (NSF). These have been held at the University of Tennessee, the Massachusetts Microelectronics Center, Boston University and the California State University, Sacramento. He has also taught short courses on VLSI design at five IEEE Nuclear Science Symposia and has organized a summer VLSI course for the Instituto Tecnologico y de Estudios Superiores in Monterrey, Mexico. He has also presented several tutorials and seminars in Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Thailand, South Korea, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United Arab Emirates. Dr. Bouldin was the General Chairman of the 1990 Workshop on Microelectronic Systems Education in the 1990s and the 1993 Workshop on Rapid Prototyping of Microelectronics Systems for Universities that were sponsored by the NSF. He was the General Chair of the 1997 IEEE-CS International Conference on Microelectronic Systems Education. He was instrumental in gaining IEEE approval for the IEEE Transactions on VLSI Systems and served as its Editor-in-Chief during 1995-1996. He has chaired the Steering Committee for that publication. For almost twenty years, Dr. Bouldin served as special Section Editor of the VLSI Designers Interface column for IEEE Circuits & Devices Magazine and is Editor of the Microelectronic Systems Newsletter that is broadcast via electronic mail on a monthly basis to over 3000 VLSI designers. He was the Technical Program Chairman for the 1996 International Symposium on Circuits and Systems and managed the review of 1400 papers. Dr. Bouldin has authored over 250 publications and been the Principal Investigator for over nine million dollars of sponsored research, primarily with DARPA, ONR, NSF and the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. In 1997 Dr. Bouldin received the University of Tennessee Chancellors Award for Research and Creative Achievement. Also in 1997, Dr. Bouldin was recognized as a Fellow of the IEEE for contributions to the design of special-purpose architectures using VLSI processors. In 2003 he received the Allen and Hoshall Award from the College of Engineering at the University of Tennessee for excellence in teaching and research and was also recognized as a 2003 Engineering Research Fellow. In 2006 he received the Charles E. Ferris Award sponsored by the Technical Society of Knoxville. He has served as the major advisor for 14 Ph.D. and 98 M.S. students. Dr. Bouldin retired in 2011 after 36 years with the University of Tennessee and is now a consultant with the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Site Map Min H. Kao Building Suite 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Phone:865-974-3461 FAX:865-974-5483 General Information: eecs-info@utk.edu Graduate School Information: eecs-gradinfo@utk.edu Website Feedback: eecs-webteam@utk.edu The University of Tennessee The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Knoxville, Tennessee 37996 865-974-1000 Events Map A-Z Directory Apply Give to UT The flagship campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Tennessee Transfer Pathway . 
