 Skip to content The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science Toggle navigation FIND PAGE Toggle navigation CLOSE Home About EECS Back About EECS Welcome to EECS Contact Information EECS Department Overview Video Facilities Facilities Min H. Kao Building Photo Gallery History Visitor Information Enrollment Data Min H. Kao EECS Department Bylaws Academics Back Academics Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Admissions Financial Aid ABET Goals Five-year BS/MS Program Honors Curriculum Graduate Programs Graduate Programs Financial Aid Graduate Handbook Award and Fellowship Information for Graduate Students Advising Advising Course Planning EECS Course Catalog Listings Schedule of Classes/Timetable Course Websites Research Back Research Areas of Research Areas of Research Affiliated Labs, Centers, and Institutes CURENT ICL NIMBioS Neuromorphic UT VolSec Technical Reports Library People Back People Faculty Full-Time Faculty (photos) Professor of Practice, Lecturer and Research (photos) Joint Faculty with ORNL & Adjunct Faculty Emeritus In Memoriam Business Office IT Staff Parts Store Mechanical Shop Advising Research Staff Industrial Advisory Board Student Organizations Dr. Min H. Kao Employment Opportunities News and Events Back News and Events Recent News Events Calendar Resources Back Resources Facilities Services EECS IT Support EECS IT Support EECS IT Knowledge Base Lab Resources EECS Facilities Statement Mechanical Shop EECS Parts Store Shipping and Receiving EECS Portal Faculty Senate Give to the Tickle College of Engineering Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Dr. Robert C. Ward Contact Information Email: bward@utk.edu Web: Homepage Mailing Address: Min H. Kao Building, Room 307 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Office Phone: 865-974-4389 Office Fax: 865-974-5483 Areas of Interest Scientific computing Parallel algorithms Matrix computations Computational science and engineering Mathematical software Education PhD in Applied Mathematics, University of Virginia, 1974 MS in Mathematics, College of William and Mary, 1969 BS in Mathematics, Tennessee Technological University, 1966 Background Bob Ward is a native Tennessean, born and raised in Sparta a small town in Middle Tennessee. He received his bachelors degree in mathematics from Tennessee Technological University, his masters degree in mathematics from the College of William and Mary, and his doctorate in applied mathematics from the University of Virginia. Dr. Wards career started at the NASA Langley Research Center in Hampton, Virginia, where he spent 8 years as a computational mathematician developing software for eigensystem analyses, applying tools for time series analyses, and consulting on mathematical and programming problems. He then moved back to Tennessee and worked over 20 years for the Oak Ridge National Laboratory as a researcher and manager. His research accomplishments during this time included the development of the Combination Shift QZ Algorithm, which was selected for inclusion in the international distributed EISPACK software package, the development of one of the most accurate and still most commonly used algorithms for computing the matrix exponential, and the development of algorithms for computing the solution to many diverse matrix problems such as linear dependency analysis of multivariate data and skew-symmetric eigenproblems. As a manager, Dr. Ward managed an aggressive research program at ORNL to develop basic algorithms for parallel computers characterizing their performance and transferring this knowledge to computational scientists at ORNL and affiliated universities. He led computer-related research activities at ORNL from a budget of $700K in FY82 to over $15M in FY94. He held numerous management positions including Director of the Engineering Physics and Mathematics Division and Acting Director of the Center for Computational Sciences. In 1995 Dr. Ward left ORNL to become Professor and Head of the Department of Computer Science at the University of Tennessee. During his 8 years as Head, the department became one of the most productive departments on campus with its position of first per faculty capital among science departments in number of B.Sc. and M.Sc. graduates and in sponsored research funding. Among his research accomplishments was the co-development of the Block Divide-and-Conquer algorithm for computing eigensystems of large matrices. His major professional activities include Chair of numerous international meetings and organizations such as a SIAM National Meeting and the SIAM Activity Group on Linear Algebra and serving on conference committees such as the Program Committee and Tutorials Committee for the Supercomputing XY series of conferences. He has been elected as Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, elected to Kappa Mu Epsilon and Tau Beta Pi Honor Societies, and selected to the All-Ohio Valley Conference Academic Basketball Team while at TTU. Min H. Kao Department of Electrical Engineering & Computer Science TICKLE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Site Map Min H. Kao Building Suite 401 1520 Middle Drive Knoxville, TN 37996-2250 Phone:865-974-3461 FAX:865-974-5483 General Information: eecs-info@utk.edu Graduate School Information: eecs-gradinfo@utk.edu Website Feedback: eecs-webteam@utk.edu The University of Tennessee The University of Tennessee, Knoxville Knoxville, Tennessee 37996 865-974-1000 Events Map A-Z Directory Apply Give to UT The flagship campus of the University of Tennessee System and partner in the Tennessee Transfer Pathway . 
