 Lane is on sabbatical. Click the following link to find the answer to: Why didn't Lane answer my email? (Note: Lane's regular web page can be seen by scrolling down this page.) The professors Hemaspaandra (Lane of URCS, left; Edith of RIT-CS, right), on their 41st Adirondack mountaintop, demonstrating the power of nonunary encodings Lane A. Hemaspaandra Note: Pre-marriage name = Lane A. Hemachandra. Professor Computer Science Department Box 270226 University of Rochester Rochester, NY 14627-0226 Email: ID = lan e.hemaspaandra DOMAIN = ic loud.com Phone +1-585-275-1203 Fax +1-585-273-4556 Education Honors Current Editorial Positions Publications Courses Research Projects Students Posters Other Items Lane'sfirstpointer,1989 Click image to see wordle detail B.S. (summa cum laude), Yale University, Computer Science and Mathematics & Physics, 1981. M.S., Stanford University, Computer Science, 1982. M.S., Cornell University, Computer Science, 1984. Ph.D., Cornell University, Computer Science, 1987. Lane's interests include computational complexity theory (especially structural complexity theory) and computational social choice theory/algorithmic game theory. Honors: SIGACT Distinguished Service Prize, 2013. Edward Peck Curtis Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching (University of Rochester's university-wide award for undergraduate teaching), 2012. ACM Distinguished Scientist, 2007-.... Friedrich Wilhelm Bessel Research Award, Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, 2006.( Photo of Lane receiving the award from Humboldt Foundation president, Dr. Wolfgang Fruehwald, June, 2007. ) JSPS (Japan Society for the Promotion of Science) Invitational Fellow, 2005. Bridging Fellow (Political Science), University of Rochester, 1994. NSF Presidential Young Investigator, 1989-1995. NSF Research Initiation Award, 1988-1990. Fannie and John Hertz Foundation Fellowship, 1982-1987. Current Editorial Positions: Advisory Board Member, Electronic Proceedings in Theoretical Computer Science Advisory Board Member, Monographs in Theoretical Computer Science Advisory Board Member, Texts in Theoretical Computer Science Editorial Board Member, Computational Complexity Editorial Board Member, Electronic Proceedings in Theoretical Computer Science Editorial Board Member, Frontiers of Computer Science Editorial Board Member, Information and Computation Editorial Board Member, Journal of Universal Computer Science Editor, Complexity Theory Column, SIGACT News Books and Other Publications: Publications : The DBLP's list of, and DBLP's online links to, most of my conference and journal publications . My full publications list (without online links to the papers) as pdf . Almost all the papers on my publication list can be found as online pdf documents in their technical report versions, but where to look for them depends on their year: Reports from 2011 and later (and some but not all earlier ones) can be found as Lane's papers at the arXiv.org CS repository . Reports from 2010 and earlier (and some but not all later ones) can be found in the theory section of the UR CS technical reports archive . Book: The Complexity Theory Companion (Hemaspaandra and Ogihara, Springer-Verlag, 2002(hardcover) and 2010(softcover)). Book: Theory of Semi-Feasible Algorithms (Hemaspaandra and Torenvliet, Springer-Verlag, 2003(hardcover) and 2010(softcover)). Book: Complexity Theory Retrospective II (Hemaspaandra and Selman, eds.) . Ph.D. Thesis: Lane's 1987 Ph.D. Thesis (as a large pdf file) . Current Course: Lane is on sabbatical 20182019. Research Projects: Main Projects: Computational Social Choice Theory and Algorithmic Game Theory Computational Complexity: Reductions, Resources, and Robustness Additional Projects : Counting Classes Cryptography, One-Way Functions, and Pseudorandom Generators Downward Collapses and Query Order Quantum Computing Semi-Feasible Algorithms Sets of Low Information Content Ph.D.s and Postdocs Advised: Prof. Piotr Faliszewski (AGH University of Science and Technology) Dr. Yenjo Han (Oracle) Dr. Harald Hempel (DAKO Systemtechnik und Service GmbH & Co. KG) Prof. Christopher Homan (Rochester Institute of Technology) Dr. Zhigen (Jason) Jiang (Director and Senior Quantitative Finance Manager, Bank of America Merrill Lynch) Dr. Curtis Menton (Google) Prof. Joerg Rothe (University of Duesseldorf) Prof. Riccardo Silvestri (University of Rome "La Sapienza") Dr. Holger Spakowski (predoctoral year) (University of Cape Town) Dr. Mayur Thakur (Managing Director, Goldman Sachs) Prof. Thomas Thierauf (Aalen University) Dr. Rahul Tripathi (Walmart, data science team) Prof. Marius Zimand (Towson University) Other (often Fun) Stuff : Lane and his wife Edith have climbed the 115 major peaks of the Northeastern USA. (So, basically as a corollary, they are also Adirondack 46ers and are in the AMC White Mountain Four Thousand Footer Club .) Posters describing research done by the Lane and his students/collaborators: Control in the Presence of Manipulators: Cooperative and Competitive Cases: view it as pdf . Schulze and Ranked-Pairs Voting Are Fixed-Parameter Tractable to Bribe, Manipulate, and Control: view it as pdf . Control Complexity of Schulze Voting: view it as pdf . Weighted Electoral Control: view it as pdf . The Complexity of Bribery in Elections: view it as powerpoint . Guarantees for the Success Frequency of an Algorithm for Finding Dodgson-Election Winners: view it as powerpoint . Politics Good, Computation Bad (by Chris Homan about our group's Power Index work): view it as pdf . One-Way Functions and Cryptography: view it as powerpoint . Rice-Style Theorems in Complexity Theory: view it as powerpoint . Here are two videos made by Lane for our graduate-student recruiting days: A 12-minute video (in .m4v format) from 2010 (in case it below doesn't have the video ready to roll but rather says that this video is not supported in your browser---I've tested it just on Safari and Firefox and it seems ok in both for me---here is the video as an .m4v download ): A 3-minute video (in .m4v format) from 2016 of Lane proving---very quickly as this was during a "2-Minute Madness" session in which each speaker got only 2 minutes in which to speak---a special case of a theorem from his 1989 Information and Computation paper with Jin-Yi Cai, namely, proving that if there is a polynomial-time function that given any Boolean formula outputs a list of two values one of which is its number of satisfying assignments, then #SAT itself is outright in polynomial time: Your browser does not support the video tag. Color slides from Lane's Talk on Lewis Carroll's 1876 Election System Color presentation (powerpoint) made by Christopher Homan on his paper with Lane on Heuristics for Lewis Carroll's 1876 Election System Web presentation made by Christopher Homan about the paper "Power Balance and Apportionment Algorithms for the United States Congress," L. Hemaspaandra, K. Rajasethupathy, P. Sethupathy, and M. Zimand, ACM Journal of Experimental Algorithmics, V. 3, #1, August 1998. TheoryCanal: The Rochester-Area Theory Seminar Series Theoretical Computer Science Research at URCS A wonderful picture, taken by Yuan Sun in October 2002, of the waterfalls and leaves at Letchworth State Park near Rochester. My student Mayur Thakur's March 15, 2004 Hour-Long Job Talk at University of Missouri at Rolla, Where He Became an Assistant Professor (Warnings: This is a .rm video, and seems to (on my mac) only work if one has RealOne Player and puts it into Theatre or Full-Screen mode; otherwise one doesn't seem to get the picture at all. Also, though the sound starts right away, the picture of Mayur starts only 66 seconds into this one hour video.) Carlson Library CS Resources Page Numbers Are Magic and Fun The Wisdom of Juris Hartmanis (from Upson's Familiar Quotations, 4th Ed.), pages: 1 , 2 , and 3 ; special bonus: see a great man and a statue The Wisdom of John Hopcroft (from Upson's Familiar Quotations, 4th Ed.) . The Wisdom of George Polya . Back to URCS Faculty directory Back to URCS Home Page Last modified: January 14, 2019. 
