 C.V. arXiv DBLP Teaching CSC 284/484 - Algorithms - Spring 2019 Tu-Th 12:30pm-13:45pm in Wilmot 116, see class page . Previous courses Algorithms - CSC 282 - Fall 2018 Advanced Algorithms - CSC 484 - Spring 2018 Algorithms - CSC 282 - Fall 2017 Advanced Algorithms - CSC 484 - Spring 2017 Algorithms - CSC 282 - Fall 2016 Advanced Algorithms - CSC 484 - Spring 2016 Algorithms - CSC 282 - Fall 2015 Advanced Algorithms - CSC 484 - Spring 2015 Algorithms - CSC 282 - Fall 2014 Advanced Algorithms - CSC 484 - Spring 2013 Algorithms - CSC 282 - Fall 2012 Advanced Algorithms - CSC 484 - Spring 2012 Algorithms - CSC 282 - Fall 2011 Advanced Algorithms - CSC 484 - Spring 2011 Algorithms - CSC 282 - Fall 2010 Mathematical Foundations of AI - CSC 246/446 - Spring 2010 Algorithms - CSC 282 - Fall 2009 Mathematical Foundations of AI - CSC 246/446 - Spring 2009 Algorithms - CSC 282 - Fall 2008 Advanced Algorithms - CSC 484 - Spring 2008 Algorithms - CSC 282 - Fall 2007 Advanced Algorithms - CSC 484 - Spring 2007 Algorithms - CSC 282 - Fall 2006 Markov Chains (graduate seminar) - CSC 574 - Spring 2006 Publications (by topic) String graphs, graph drawing, computing with curves on surfaces Block Additivity of Z2-Embeddings. We study embeddings of graphs in surfaces up to Z2-homology. We introduce a notion of genus mod 2 and show that some basic results, most noteworthy block additivity, hold for Z2-genus. This has consequences for (potential) Hanani-Tutte theorems on arbitrary surfaces. Marcus Schaefer, Daniel Stefankovic. Graph Drawing 2013 , pp.185-195, 2013. Adjacent Crossings Do Matter. In a drawing of a graph, two edges form an odd pair if they cross each other an odd number of times. A pair of edges is independent if the two edges share no endpoint. For a graph G, let ocr(G) be the smallest number odd pairs in a drawing of G and let iocr(G) be the smallest number of independent odd pairs in a drawing of G. We construct a graph G with iocr(G) 0 we construct an ordered graph G such that for x-monotone drawings, the monotone variant of ocr and iocr satisfy 2=mon-iocr(G) < mon-ocr(G)-n$. We can also separate mon-ocr from its variant in which crossings of adjacent edges are prohibited. We also offer a general translation result from monotone separations to non-monotone separations. This could prove useful in settling several open separation problems, such as pair crossing number versus crossing number. Radoslav Fulek, Michael Pelsmajer, Marcus Schaefer, Daniel Stefankovic. Journal of Graph Algorithms and Applications 16(3), pp.759-782, 2012. A preliminary version appeared in Graph Drawing 2011 , LNCS 7034, pp.343-354, 2011. Hanani-Tutte and Monotone Drawings. A drawing of a graph is x-monotone if every edge intersects every vertical line at most once and every vertical line contains at most one vertex. Pach and Toth showed that if a graph has an x-monotone drawing in which every pair of edges crosses an even number of times, then the graph has an x-monotone embedding in which the x-coordinates of all vertices are unchanged. We give a new proof of this result and strengthen it by showing that the conclusion remains true even if adjacent edges are allowed to cross oddly. This answers a question posed by Pach and Toth. Moreover, we show that an extension of this result for graphs with non-adjacent pairs of edges crossing oddly fails even if there exists only one such pair in a graph. Radoslav Fulek, Michael Pelsmajer, Marcus Schaefer, Daniel Stefankovic. WG 2011 , LNCS 6986, pp.283-294, 2011. Removing independently even crossings. We show that the crossing number is bounded by a quadratic function of the independent odd crossing number, settling an open problem of Pach and Toth (Combinatorica, 9 (2000), pp.194-207). Moreover, iocr(G)=ocr(G) if iocr(G) <=2. Michael Pelsmajer, Marcus Schaefer, Daniel Stefankovic. SIAM Journal on Discrete Mathematics 24(2), pp.379-393, 2010. A preliminary version appeared in Graph Drawing 2009 , LNCS 5849, pp.201-206, 2009. (TALK: PDF PPT ) Removing even crossings on surfaces. In this paper we investigate how certain results related to the Hanani-Tutte theorem can be extended from the plane to surfaces. We give a simple topological proof that the weak Hanani-Tutte theorem is true on arbitrary surfaces, both orientable and nonorientable. We apply these results and the proof techniques to obtain new and old results about generalized thrackles, including that every bipartite generalized thrackle on a surface S can be embedded on S. We also extend to arbitrary surfaces a result of Pach and Tth that allows the redrawing of a graph so as to remove all crossings with even edges. From this we can conclude that cr_S(G), the crossing number of a graph G on surface S, is bounded by 2 ocr_S(G)^2, where ocr_S(G) is the odd crossing number of G on surface S. Finally, we prove that ocr_S(G) = cr_S(G) whenever ocr_S(G) <=2, for any surface S. Michael Pelsmajer, Marcus Schaefer, Daniel Stefankovic. European Journal of Combinatorics 30(7), pp.1704-1717, 2009. A preliminary version appeared in EUROCOMB 2007 , Electronic Notes in Discrete Mathematics 29, pp.85-90, 2007. Computing Dehn twists and geometric intersection numbers in polynomial time. We give polynomial-time algorithms for the following problems for simple (multi) curves given by normal coordinates or by Dehn-Thurston coordinates. Compute Dehn twist of a curve A along a curve B. Compute geometric intersection number of two curves A and B. Marcus Schaefer, Eric Sedgwick, Daniel Stefankovic. CCCG 2008 , pp.111-114, 2008. (TALK: PDF PPT ) Spiralling and folding: the topological view. For every n, we construct two arcs in the four-punctured sphere that have at least n intersections and which do not form spirals. This is accomplished in several steps: we first exhibit closed curves on the torus that do not form double spirals, then arcs on the four-punctured torus that do not form spirals, and finally arcs in the four-punctured sphere which do not form spirals. Marcus Schaefer, Eric Sedgwick, Daniel Stefankovic. CCCG 2007 , pp. 73-76, 2007. Crossing number of graphs with rotation systems. We show that computing the crossing number of a graph with a given rotation system is NP-complete. This result leads to a new and much simpler proof of Hlineny.s result, that computing the crossing number of a cubic graph (without rotation system) is NP-complete. We also investigate the special case of multigraphs with rotation systems on a fixed number k of vertices. For k = 1 and k = 2 the crossing number can be computed in polynomial time and approximated to within a factor of 2 in linear time. For larger k we show how to approximate the crossing number to within a factor of Binomial(k+4,4)/5 in time O(m^(k+2)) on a graph with m edges. Michael Pelsmajer, Marcus Schaefer, Daniel Stefankovic. Algorithmica 60(3), pp.679-702, 2011. A preliminary version appeared in Graph Drawing 2007 , pp.3-12, 2007. Crossing numbers and parameterized complexity. The odd crossing number of G is the smallest number of pairs of edges that cross an odd number of times in any drawing of G. We show that there always is a drawing realizing the odd crossing number of G that uses at most 9^k crossings, where k is the odd crossing number of G. As a consequence of this and a result of Grohe we can show that the odd crossing number is fixed-parameter tractable. Michael Pelsmajer, Marcus Schaefer, Daniel Stefankovic. Graph Drawing 2007 , pp.31-36, 2007. Folding and spiralling: the word view. We show that for every n there are two simple curves on the torus intersecting at least n times without the two curves folding or spiralling with respect to each other. Marcus Schaefer, Eric Sedgwick, Daniel Stefankovic. Algorithmica 60(3):679-702, 2011. A preliminary version appeared in EUROCOMB 2007 , Electronic Notes in Discrete Mathematics 29, pp.101-105, 2007. Removing even crossings. An edge in a drawing of a graph is called even if it intersects every other edge of the graph an even number of times. Pach and Toh proved that a graph can always be redrawn so that its even edges are not involved in any intersections. We give a new and significantly simpler proof of the stronger statement that the redrawing can be done in such a way that no new odd intersections are introduced. We include two applications of this strengthened result: an easy proof of a theorem of Hanani and Tutte (the only proof we know of not to use Kuratowski.s theorem), and the new result that the odd crossing number of a graph equals the crossing number of the graph for values of at most 3. The paper begins with a disarmingly simple proof of a weak (but standard) version of the theorem by Hanani and Tutte. Michael Pelsmajer, Marcus Schaefer, Daniel Stefankovic. Journal of Combinatorial Theory Series B 97(4), pp.489-500, 2007. A preliminary version appeared in EUROCOMB 2005 , volume AE of Discrete Mathematics & Theoretical Computer Science, pp.105-110, 2005. Odd crossing number and crossing number are not the same. The crossing number of a graph G is the minimum number of edge intersections in a plane drawing of G, where each intersection is counted separately. If instead we count the number of pairs of edges that intersect an odd number of times, we obtain the odd crossing number. We show that there exists a graph for which these two concepts differ, answering a well-known open question on crossing numbers. To derive the result we study drawings of maps (graphs with rotation systems). Michael Pelsmajer, Marcus Schaefer, Daniel Stefankovic. Discrete & Computational Geometry 39(1-3), pp.442-454, 2008. A preliminary version appered in Graph Drawing 2005 , pp.386-396. (TALK: PDF PPT ) Train tracks and confluent drawings. Confluent graphs are a natural generalization of planar graphs. The complexity of recognition of confluent graphs is not well understood. We introduce a variant called strongly confluent graphs and show that recognition of strongly confluent graphs is in NP. We also give a natural elimination ordering characterization of tree-confluent graphs which shows they form a subclass of the chordal bipartite graphs. Peter Hui, Michael Pelsmajer, Marcus Schaefer, Daniel Stefankovic. Algorithmica 47(4), pp.465-479, 2007. A preliminary version appeared in Graph Drawing 2004 , LNCS 3383, pp.318-328, 2004. Algorithms for normal curves and surfaces. We give polynomial-time algorithms for the following problems for simple (multi) curves given by normal coordinates in a triangulation T of a surface M. Compute coordinates of a multi-curve A in a minimal triangulation T' of M. Count the algebraic intersection number of multi-curves A and B. Count the number of connected components of a multi curve A. List the non-isotopic connected components of a multi curve A together with their multiplicities in A. Find an arc connecting two points in M-A disjoint from A. Marcus Schaefer, Eric Sedgwick, Daniel Stefankovic. COCOON 2002 , pp.370-380, 2002. Recognizing string graphs in NP. We show that string graphs can be recognized in NP. The recognition problem was not known to be decidable until very recently. The result has consequences for the computational complexity of problems in graph drawing, and topological inference. Marcus Schaefer, Eric Sedgwick, Daniel Stefankovic. J. Comput. System Sci. 67(2), pp.365-380, 2003 (STOC 2002 special issue). A preliminary version appered in STOC 2002 , pp.1-6. (TALK: PDF PPT ) Decidability of string graphs. We show that string graphs can be recognized in NEXP by giving an exponential upper bound on the number of intersections for a drawing realizing the string graph in the plane. This upper bound confirms a conjecture by Kratochvil and Matousek and settles the long-standing open problem of the decidability of string graph recognition. Finally we show how to apply the result to solve another old open problem: deciding the existence of Euler diagrams. Marcus Schaefer, Daniel Stefankovic. J. Comput. System Sci. 68(2), pp.319-334, 2004 (STOC 2001 special issue). A preliminary version appeared in STOC 2001 , pp.241-246. (TALK: PDF PPT ) Sampling, Counting, Markov chains Swendsen-Wang Algorithm on the Mean-Field Potts Model We study the q-state ferromagnetic Potts model on the n-vertex complete graph known as the mean-field (Curie-Weiss) model. We analyze the Swendsen-Wang algorithm which is a Markov chain that utilizes the random cluster representation for the ferromagnetic Potts model to recolor large sets of vertices in one step and potentially overcomes obstacles that inhibit single-site Glauber dynamics. The case q = 2 (the Swendsen-Wang algorithm for the ferromagnetic Ising model) undergoes a slow-down at the uniqueness/non-uniqueness critical temperature for the infinite DELTA-regular tree ([16]) but yet still has polynomial mixing time at all (inverse) temperatures BETA > 0 ([7]). In contrast for q = 3 there are two critical temperatures 0 < BETA[U] < BETA[RC] that are relevant, these two critical points relate to phase transitions in the infinite tree. We prove that the mixing time of the Swendsen-Wang algorithm for the ferromagnetic Potts model on the n-vertex complete graph satisfies: (i) O(log n) for BETA < BETA[U] , (ii) O(n^(1/3)) for BETA = BETA[U] , (iii) exp(n THETA(1) ) for BETA[U] < BETA < BETA[RC] , and (iv) O(log n) for BETA = BETA[RC]. These results complement refined results of Cuff et al. [10] on the mixing time of the Glauber dynamics for the ferromagnetic Potts model. The most interesting aspect of our analysis is at the critical temperature BETA = BETA[U], which requires a delicate choice of a potential function to balance the conflating factors for the slow drift away from a fixed point (which is repulsive but not Jacobian repulsive): close to the fixed point the variance from the percolation step dominates and sufficiently far from the fixed point the dynamics of the size of the dominant color class takes over. Andreas Galanis, Daniel Stefankovic, Eric Vigoda. RANDOM 2015 , pp.815-828, 2015. Spatial mixing and the connective constant: Optimal bounds We study the problem of deterministic approximate counting of matchings and independent sets in graphs of bounded connective constant. More generally, we consider the problem of evaluating the partition functions of the monomer-dimer model (which is defined as a weighted sum over all matchings where each matching is given a weight GAMMA^(-2|M|) in terms of a fixed parameter GAMMA called the monomer activity) and the hard core model (which is defined as a weighted sum over all independent sets where an independent set I is given a weight LAMBDA^|I| in terms of a fixed parameter LAMBDA called the vertex activity). The connective constant is a natural measure of the average degree of a graph which has been studied extensively in combinatorics and mathematical physics, and can be bounded by a constant even for certain unbounded degree graphs such as those sampled from the sparse Erdos-Renyi model G(n,d/n). Our main technical contribution is to prove the best possible rates of decay of correlations in the natural probability distributions induced by both the hard core model and the monomer-dimer model in graphs with a given bound on the connective constant. These results on decay of correlations are obtained using a new framework based on the so-called message approach that has been extensively used recently to prove such results for bounded degree graphs. We then use these optimal decay of correlations results to obtain FPTASs for the two problems on graphs of bounded connective constant. In particular, for the monomer-dimer model, we give a deterministic FPTAS for the partition function on all graphs of bounded connective constant for any given value of the monomer activity. The best previously known deterministic algorithm was due to Bayati, Gamarnik, Katz, Nair and Tetali [STOC 2007], and gave the same runtime guarantees as our results but only for the case of bounded degree graphs. For the hard core model, we give an FPTAS for graphs of connective constant DELTA whenever the vertex activity LAMBDA < LAMBDAC[DELTA], where LAMBDAC[DELTA = DELTA^DELTA/(DELTA-1)^(DELTA+1); this result is optimal in the sense that an FPTAS for any LAMBDA > LAMBDAC(DELTA) would imply that NP=RP [Sly, FOCS 2010]. The previous best known result in this direction was a recent paper by a subset of the current authors [FOCS 2013], where the result was established under the sub- optimal condition LAMBDA < LAMBDAC(DELTA + 1). Our techniques also allow us to improve upon known bounds for decay of correlations for the hard core model on various regular lattices, including those obtained by Restrepo, Shin, Vigoda and Tetali [FOCS 11] for the special case of Z^2 using sophisticated numerically intensive methods tailored to that special case. Alistair Sinclair, Piyush Srivastava, Daniel Stefankovic, Yitong Yin. SODA 2015 , pp.1549-1563, 2015. Ferromagnetic Potts Model: Refined #BIS-hardness and Related Results Recent results establish for the hard-core model (and more generally for 2-spin antiferromagnetic systems) that the computational complexity of approximating the partition function on graphs of maximum degree DELTA undergoes a phase transition that coincides with the uniqueness/non-uniqueness phase transition on the infinite DELTA-regular tree. For the ferromagnetic Potts model we investigate whether analogous hardness results hold. Goldberg and Jerrum showed that approximating the partition function of the ferromagnetic Potts model is at least as hard as approximating the number of independent sets in bipartite graphs, so-called #BIS-hardness. We improve this hardness result by establishing it for bipartite graphs of maximum degree DELTA. To this end, we first present a detailed picture for the phase diagram for the infinite DELTA-regular tree, giving a refined picture of its first-order phase transition and establishing the critical temperature for the coexistence of the disordered and ordered phases. We then prove for all temperatures below this critical temperature (corresponding to the region where the ordered phase dominates) that it is #BIS-hard to approximate the partition function on bipartite graphs of maximum degree DELTA. The #BIS-hardness result uses random bipartite regular graphs as a gadget in the reduction. The analysis of these random graphs relies on recent results establishing connections between the maxima of the expectation of their partition function, attractive fixpoints of the associated tree recursions, and induced matrix norms. In this paper we extend these connections to random regular graphs for all ferromagnetic models. Using these connections, we establish the Bethe prediction for every ferromagnetic spin system on random regular graphs, which says roughly that the expectation of the log of the partition function Z is the same as the log of the expectation of Z. As a further consequence of our results, we prove for the ferromagnetic Potts model that the Swendsen-Wang algorithm is torpidly mixing (i.e., exponentially slow convergence to its stationary distribution) on random DELTA-regular graphs at the critical temperature for sufficiently large q. Andreas Galanis, Daniel Stefankovic, Eric Vigoda, Linji Yang. RANDOM 2014 , LNCS 6845, pp.677-691, 2014. #BIS-Hardness for 2-Spin Systems on Bipartite Bounded Degree Graphs in the Tree Non-uniqueness Region Counting independent sets on bipartite graphs (#BIS) is considered a canonical counting problem of intermediate approximation complexity. It is conjectured that #BIS neither has an FPRAS nor is as hard as #Sat to approximate. We study #BIS in the general framework of two-state spin systems in bipartite graphs. Such a system is parameterized by three numbers (BETA,GAMMA,LAMBDA), where BETA (respectively GAMMA) represents the weight of an edge (or interaction strength) whose end points are of the same 0 (respectively 1) spin, and LAMBDA is the weight of a 1 vertex, also known as an external field. By convention, the edge weight with unequal 0/1 end points and the vertex weight with spin 0 are both normalized to 1. The partition function of the special case BETA = 1, GAMMA = 0, and LAMBDA = 1 counts the number of independent sets. We define two notions, nearly-independent phase-correlated spins and symmetry breaking. We prove that it is #BIS-hard to approximate the partition function of any two-spin system on bipartite graphs supporting these two notions. As a consequence, we show that #BIS on graphs of degree at most 6 is as hard to approximate as #BIS without degree bound. The degree bound 6 is the best possible as Weitz presented an FPTAS to count independent sets on graphs of maximum degree 5. This result extends to the hard-core model and to other anti-ferromagnetic two-spin models. In particular, for all antiferromagnetic two-spin systems, namely those satisfying BETA*GAMMA < 1, we prove that when infinite (DELTA - 1)-ary tree lies in the non-uniqueness region then it is #BIS-hard to approximate the partition function on bipartite graphs of maximum degree DELTA, except for the case BETA = GAMMA and LAMBDA = 1. The exceptional case is precisely the antiferromagnetic Ising model without an external field, and we show that it has an FPRAS on bipartite graphs. Our inapproximability results match the approximability results of Li et al., who presented an FPTAS for general graphs of maximum degree DELTA when the parameters lie in the uniqueness region. Jin-Yi Cai, Andreas Galanis, Leslie Ann Goldgerg, Heng Guo, Mark Jerrum, Daniel Stefankovic, Eric Vigoda. RANDOM 2014 , LNCS 6845, pp.582-595, 2014. Inapproximability for Antiferromagnetic Spin Systems in the Tree Non-Uniqueness Region A remarkable connection has been established for antiferromagnetic 2-spin systems, including the Ising and hard-core models, showing that the computational complexity of ap- proximating the partition function for graphs with maxi- mum degree DELTA undergoes a phase transition that coincides with the statistical physics uniqueness/non-uniqueness phase transition on the infinite DELTA-regular tree. Despite this clear picture for 2-spin systems, there is little known for multi-spin systems. We present the first analog of the above inapproximability results for multi-spin systems. The main difficulty in previous inapproximability results was analyzing the behavior of the model on random DELTA-regular bipartite graphs, which served as the gadget in the reduction. To this end one needs to understand the moments of the partition function. Our key contribution is connecting: (i) induced matrix norms, (ii) maxima of the expectation of the partition function, and (iii) attractive fixed points of the associated tree recursions (belief propagation). The view through matrix norms allows a simple and generic analysis of the second moment for any spin system on random DELTA-regular bipartite graphs. This yields concentration results for any spin system in which one can analyze the maxima of the first moment. The connection to fixed points of the tree recursions enables an analysis of the maxima of the first moment for specific models of interest. For k-colorings we prove that for even k, in the tree non- uniqueness region (specifically for semi-translation invariant measures which corresponds to k < DELTA) it is NP-hard, un- less NP=RP, to approximate the number of colorings for triangle-free DELTA-regular graphs. Our proof extends to the antiferromagnetic Potts model, and, in fact, to every anti- ferromagnetic model under a mild condition. Andreas Galanis, Daniel Stefankovic, Eric Vigoda. STOC 2014 , pp.823-831, 2014. A Deterministic Polynomial-Time Approximation Scheme for Counting Knapsack Solutions. Given n elements with nonnegative integer weights w[1],...., w[n] and an integer capacity C, we consider the counting version of the classic knapsack problem: find the number of distinct subsets whose weights add up to at most the given capacity. We give a deterministic algorithm that estimates the number of solutions to within relative error $1\pm\varepsilon$ in time polynomial in n and $1/\varepsilon$ (fully polynomial approximation scheme). More precisely, our algorithm takes time $O(n^3\varepsilon^{-1}\log(n/\varepsilon))$. Our algorithm is based on dynamic programming (using the approximate count as an index in the table). Previously, randomized polynomial-time approximation schemes were known first by Morris and Sinclair via Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques and subsequently by Dyer via dynamic programming and rejection sampling. Daniel Stefankovic, Santosh Vempala, Eric Vigoda. SIAM Journal on Computing 41(2), pp.356-366, 2012. A merged version appeared in FOCS 2011 , pp.817-826, 2011 (merged with a paper of Parikshit Gopalan, Raghu Meka, Adam Klivans). (TALK: PDF PPT ) Improved Inapproximability Results for Counting Independent Sets in the Hard-Core Model. We study the computational complexity of approximately counting the number of independent sets of a graph with maximum degree DELTA. More generally, for an input graph G=(V,E) and an activity LAMBDA>0, we are interested in the quantity Z_G(LAMBDA) defined as the sum over independent sets I weighted as w(I) = LAMBDA^|I|. In statistical physics, Z_G(LAMBDA) is the partition function for the hard-core model, which is an idealized model of a gas where the particles have non-negibile size. Recently, an interesting phase transition was shown to occur for the complexity of approximating the partition function. Weitz showed an FPAS for the partition function for any graph of maximum degree DELTA when DELTA is constant and LAMBDA < LAMBDA_c(DELTA):=(DELTA-1)^(DELTA-1)/(DELTA-2)^DELTA. The quantity LAMBDA_c(DELTA) is the critical point for the so-called uniqueness threshold on the infinite, regular tree of degree DELTA. On the other side, Sly proved that there does not exist efficient (randomized) approximation algorithms for LAMBDA_c(DELTA) < LAMBDA < \LAMBDA_c(DELTA)+EPSILON(DELTA), unless NP=RP, for some function EPSILON(DELTA)>0. We remove the upper bound in the assumptions of Sly's result for DELTA other than 4 and 5, that is, we show that there does not exist efficient randomized approximation algorithms for all LAMBDA > LAMBDA_c(DELTA) for DELTA=3 and DELTA >= 6. Sly's inapproximability result uses a clever reduction, combined with a second-moment analysis of Mossel, Weitz and Wormald which prove torpid mixing of the Glauber dynamics for sampling from the associated Gibbs distribution on almost every regular graph of degree DELTA for the same range of LAMBDA as in Sly's result. We extend Sly's result by improving upon the technical work of Mossel et al. Andreas Galanis, Qi Ge, Daniel Stefankovic, Eric Vigoda, Linji Yang. RANDOM 2011 , LNCS 6845, pp.567-578, 2011. Phase Transition for Glauber Dynamics for Independent Sets on Regular Trees. We study the effect of boundary conditions on the relaxation time of the Glauber dynamics for the hard-core model on the tree. The hard-core model is defined on the set of independent sets weighted by a parameter LAMBDA, called the activity. The Glauber dynamics is the Markov chain that updates a randomly chosen vertex in each step. On the infinite tree with branching factor B, the hard-core model can be equivalently defined as a broadcasting process with a parameter OMEGA which is the positive solution to LAMBDA=OMEGA(1+OMEGA)^B, and vertices are occupied with probability OMEGA/(1+OMEGA) when their parent is unoccupied. This broadcasting process undergoes a phase transition between the so-called reconstruction and non-reconstruction regions at OMEGA_R which is approximately LN(B)/B. Reconstruction has been of considerable interest recently since it appears to be intimately connected to the efficiency of local algorithms on locally tree-like graphs, such as sparse random graphs. In this paper we show that the relaxation time of the Glauber dynamics on regular B-ary trees T of height H and N vertices, undergoes a phase transition around the reconstruction threshold. In particular, we construct a boundary condition for which the relaxation time slows down at the reconstruction threshold. More precisely, for any OMEGA < = LN(B)/B, for T with any boundary condition, the relaxation time is between Omega(n) and O(N^(1+o_B(1))). In contrast, above the reconstruction threshold we show that for every DELTA>0, for OMEGA=(1+DELTA)LN(B)/B, the relaxation time on T with any boundary condition is O(N^*1+DELTA + o_B(1))), and we construct a boundary condition where the relaxation time is OMEGA(N^(1+DELTA/2 - o_B(1))). Ricardo Restrepo, Daniel Stefankovic, Juan C Vera, Eric Vigoda, Linji Yang. SODA 2011 , pp.945-946, 2011. A graph polynomial for independent sets of bipartite graphs. We introduce a new graph polynomial that encodes interesting properties of graphs, for example, the number of matchings, the number of perfect matchings, and, for bipartite graphs, the number of independent sets (#BIS). We analyze the complexity of exact evaluation of the polynomial at rational points and show a dichotomy result---for most points exact evaluation is #P-hard (assuming the generalized Riemann hypothesis) and for the rest of the points exact evaluation is trivial. We propose a natural Markov chain to approximately evaluate the polynomial for a range of parameters.We prove an upper bound on the mixing time of the Markov chain on trees. As a by-product we show that the single bond flip Markov chain for the random cluster model is rapidly mixing on constant tree-width graphs Qi Ge, Daniel Stefankovic. Combinatorics, Probability and Computing, 21(5), pp. 695-714, 2012. A preliminary version appeared in FSTTCS 2010 , pp.240-250, 2010. (TALK: PDF PPT ) The complexity of counting Eulerian tours in 4-regular graphs. We investigate the complexity of counting Eulerian tours (#ET) and its variations from two perspectives---the complexity of exact counting and the complexity w.r.t. approximation-preserving reductions. We prove that #ET is #P-complete even for planar 4-regular graphs. A closely related problem is that of counting A-trails (#A-TRAILS) in graphs with rotational embedding schemes (so-called maps). Kotzig showed that #A-TRAILS can be computed in polynomial time for 4-regular plane graphs. We show that for 4-regular maps the problem is #P-hard. Moreover, we show that from the approximation viewpoint #A-TRAILS in 4-regular maps captures the essence of #ET, that is, we give an approximation preserving reduction from #ET in general graphs to #A-TRAILS in 4-regular maps. The reduction uses a fast mixing result for a card shuffling problem (Wilson'04). Qi Ge, Daniel Stefankovic. Algorithmica, 63(3), pp. 588-601, 2012. A preliminary version appeared in LATIN 2010 , pp.638-649, 2010. (TALK: PDF PPT ) Adaptive simulated annealing: a near-optimal connection between sampling and counting. We present a near-optimal reduction from approximately counting the cardinality of a discrete set to approximately sampling elements of the set. An important application of our work is to approximating the partition function Z of a discrete system, such as the Ising model, matchings or colorings of a graph. The typical approach to estimating the partition function Z(B) at some desired inverse temperature B is to define a sequence, which we call a cooling schedule, B[0]=0 < B[1] < .... < B[L]=B where Z(0) is trivial to compute and the ratios Z(B[i+1])/Z(B[i]) are easy to estimate by sampling from the distribution corresponding to Z(B[i]). Previous approaches required a cooling schedule of length L=O^*(LN(A)) where A=Z(0). We present a cooling schedule of length L=O^*(SQRT(LN(A)))$. For well-studied problems such as estimating the partition function of the Ising model, or approximating the number of colorings or matchings of a graph, our cooling schedule is of length O^*(SQRT(n)), which implies an overall savings of O^*(n) in the running time of the approximate counting algorithm (since roughly L samples are needed to estimate each ratio). Daniel Stefankovic, Santosh Vempala, Eric Vigoda. Journal of ACM 56(3), 2009. A preliminary version appeared in FOCS 2007 , pp.183-193. (TALK: PDF PPT , longer version: PDF , PPT , even longer (2hours): PDF , PPT ) Accelerating simulated annealing for the permanent and combinatorial counting problems. We present an improved "cooling schedule" for simulated annealing algorithms for combinatorial counting problems. Under our new schedule the rate of cooling accelerates as the temperature decreases. Thus, fewer intermediate temperatures are needed as the simulated annealing algorithm moves from the high temperature (easy region) to the low temperature (difficult region). We present applications of our technique to colorings and the permanent (perfect matchings of bipartite graphs). Moreover, for the permanent, we improve the analysis of the Markov chain underlying the simulated annealing algorithm. This improved analysis, combined with the faster cooling schedule, results in an O(n^7 log^4 n) time algorithm for approximating the permanent of a 0/1 matrix. Ivona Bezakova, Daniel Stefankovic, Vijay Vazirani, Eric Vigoda. Siam Journal of Computing, 37(5), pp.1429-1454, 2008. A preliminary version appeared in SODA 2006 , pp.900-907, 2006. Negative examples for sequential importance sampling of binary contingency tables. The sequential importance sampling (SIS) algorithm has gained considerable popularity for its empirical success. One of its noted applications is to the binary contingency tables problem, an important problem in statistics, where the goal is to estimate the number of 0/1 matrices with prescribed row and column sums. We give a family of examples in which the SIS procedure, if run for any subexponential number of trials, will underestimate the number of tables by an exponential factor. This result holds for any of the usual design choices in the SIS algorithm, namely the ordering of the columns and rows. These are apparently the first theoretical results on the efficiency of the SIS algorithm for binary contingency tables. Finally, we present experimental evidence that the SIS algorithm is efficient for row and column sums that are regular. Our work is a first step in determining the class of inputs for which SIS is effective. Ivona Bezakova, Alistair Sinclair, Daniel Stefankovic, Eric Vigoda. Algorithmica, 64(4), pp.606-620, 2012. A preliminary version appeared in ESA 2006 , pp.136-147, 2006. (TALK: PDF PPT ) Learning Theory Approximating L1-distances between mixture distributions using random projections. We consider the problem of computing L1-distances between every pair of probability densities from a given family. We point out that the technique of Cauchy random projections (Indyk'06) in this context turns into stochastic integrals with respect to Cauchy motion. For piecewise-linear densities these integrals can be sampled from if one can sample from the stochastic integral of the function x->(1,x). We give an explicit density function for this stochastic integral and present an efficient sampling algorithm. As a consequence we obtain an efficient algorithm to approximate the L1-distances with a small relative error. For piecewise-polynomial densities we show how to approximately sample from the distributions resulting from the stochastic integrals. This also results in an efficient algorithm to approximate the L1-distances, although our inability to get exact samples worsens the dependence on the parameters. Satyaki Mahalanabis, Daniel Stefankovic. ANALCO 2009 , pp.65-84, 2009. Density estimation in linear time. We consider the problem of choosing a density estimate from a set of distributions F, minimizing the L1-distance to an unknown distribution (Devroye, Lugosi, 2001). Devroye and Lugosi analyze two algorithms for the problem: Scheffe tournament winner and minimum distance estimate. The Scheffe tournament estimate requires fewer computations than the minimum distance estimate, but has strictly weaker guarantees than the latter. We focus on the computational aspect of density estimation. We present two algorithms, both with the same guarantee as the minimum distance estimate. The first one, a modification of the minimum distance estimate, uses the same number (quadratic in |F|) of computations as the Scheffe tournament. The second one, called efficient minimum loss-weight estimate, uses only a linear number of computations, assuming that F is preprocessed. We also give examples showing that the guarantees of the algorithms cannot be improved and explore randomized algorithms for density estimation. Satyaki Mahalanabis, Daniel Stefankovic. COLT 2008 , pp.503-512, 2008. (TALK: PDF PPT ) Behavioral shaping for geometric concepts. In a search problem, an agent uses the membership oracle of a target concept to find a positive example of the concept. In a shaped search problem the agent is aided by a sequence of increasingly restrictive concepts leading to the target concept (analogous to behavioral shaping). The concepts are given by membership oracles, and the agent has to find a positive example of the target concept while minimizing the total number of oracle queries. We show that for the concept class of intervals on the real line an agent using a bounded number of queries per oracle exists. In contrast, for the concept class of unions of two intervals on the real line no agent with a bounded number of queries per oracle exists. We then investigate the (amortized) number of queries per oracle needed for the shaped search problem over other concept classes. We explore the following methods to obtain efficient agents. For axis-parallel rectangles we use a bootstrapping technique to obtain gradually better approximations of the target concept. We show that given rectangles R subseteq A subseteq R^d one can obtain a rectangle A' \supseteq R with vol(A') / vol(R) <= 2, using only O(d.vol(A)/vol(R)) random samples from A. For ellipsoids of bounded eccentricity in R^d we analyze a deterministic ray-shooting process which uses a sequence of rays to get close to the centroid. Finally, we use algorithms for generating random points in convex bodies (Dyer et al., 1991; Kannan et al., 1997) to give a randomized agent for the concept class of convex bodies. In the final section, we explore connections between our bootstrapping method and active learning. Specifically, we use the bootstrapping technique for axis-parallel rectangles to active learn axis-parallel rectangles under the uniform distribution in O(d ln(1/epsilon)) labeled samples. Manu Chhabra, Robert A. Jacobs, Daniel Stefankovic. JMLR 8, pp.1835-1865, 2007. Phylogeny Fast convergence of MCMC algorithms for phylogenetic reconstruction with homogeneous data on closely related species. We prove that a certain Markov chain for phylogenetic reconstruction using SPR transitions converges to its stationary distribution when the data is generated from a tree with sufficiently short branch lengths. Our proofs express the leading terms of the maximum likelihood function of a tree T as a function of the size of the minimum cut in T needed to realize single edge cuts of the generating tree. Our results are in contrast to recent works showing examples with heterogeneous data (namely, the data is generated from a mixture distribution) where many natural Markov chains are exponentially slow to converge to the stationary distribution. Daniel Stefankovic, Eric Vigoda. SIAM Journal on Discrete Mathematics 25(3), pp. 1194-1211, 2011. Phylogeny of mixture models: robustness of maximum likelihood and non-identifiable distributions. We address phylogenetic reconstruction when the data is generated from a mixture distribution. Such topics have gained considerable attention in the biological community with the clear evidence of heterogeneity of mutation rates. In our work we consider data coming from a mixture of trees which share a common topology, but differ in their edge weights (i.e., branch lengths). We first show the pitfalls of popular methods, including maximum likelihood and Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithms. We then determine in which evolutionary models, reconstructing the tree topology, under a mixture distribution, is (im)possible. We prove that every model whose transition matrices can be parameterized by an open set of multi-linear polynomials, either has non-identifiable mixture distributions, in which case reconstruction is impossible in general, or there exist linear tests which identify the topology. This duality theorem, relies on our notion of linear tests and uses ideas from convex programming duality. Linear tests are closely related to linear invariants, which were first introduced by Lake, and are natural from an algebraic geometry perspective. Daniel Stefankovic, Eric Vigoda. Journal of Computational Biology, 14(2), pp.156-189, 2007. (TALK: PDF PPT ) Pitfalls of heterogeneous processes for phylogenetic reconstruction. Different genes often have different phylogenetic histories. Even within regions having the same phylogenetic history, the mutation rates often vary. We investigate the prospects of phylogenetic reconstruction when all the characters are generated from the same tree topology, but the branch lengths vary (with possibly different tree shapes). Furthering work of Kolaczkowski and Thornton (2004) and Chang (1996), we show examples where maximum likelihood (under a homogeneous model) is an inconsistent estimator of the tree. We then explore the prospects of phylogenetic inference under a heterogeneous model. In some models, there are examples where phylogenetic inference under any method is impossible, despite the fact that there is a common tree topology. In particular, there are non-identifiable mixture distributions, i.e., multiple topologies generate identical mixture distributions. We address which evolutionary models have non-identifiable mixture distributions and prove that the following duality theorem holds for most DNA substitution models. The model has either: Non-identifiability, i.e., two different tree topologies can produce identical mixture distributions, and hence distinguishing between the two topologies is impossible; or Linear tests, i.e., there exist linear tests which identify the common tree topology for character data generated by a mixture distribution. The theorem holds for models whose transition matrices can be parameterized by open sets, which includes most of the popular models, such as Tamura-Nei and Kimura's 2-parameter model. The duality theorem relies on our notion of linear tests, which are related to Lake's linear invariants. Daniel Stefankovic, Eric Vigoda. Systematic Biology, 56(1), pp.113-124, 2007. Fourier Transforms Simultaneous diophantine approximation with excluded primes. Given real numbers al_1,...,al_n, a simultaneous diophantine eps-approximation is a sequence of integers P_1,...,P_n,Q such that Q>0 and for all j\in {1,...,n}, |Q al_j-P_j|<=eps. A simultaneous diophantine approximation is said to exclude the prime p if Q is not divisible by p. Given real numbers al_1,...,al_n, a prime p and eps>0 we show that at least one of the following holds (A) there is a simultaneous diophantine eps-approximation which excludes p, or (B) there exist integers a_1,...,a_n,t such that sum a_j al_j=1/p+t and sum |a_j|<= n^{3/2}/eps. Note that in case (B) the a_j witness that there is no simultaneous diophantine eps/(n^{3/2}p)-approximation excluding p. As an application we show that for p a prime and bounded d | p-1 the ring Z/P^kZ contains a number all of whose d-th roots modulo p^k are small. Laszlo Babai, Daniel Stefankovic. SODA 2004 , pp.1123-1129, 2004. (TALK: PDF PPT ) Fourier transforms in computer science. We survey proofs of five Theorems which have applications in the Theory of Computing. The common theme of the proofs is the use of various variants of harmonic analysis. The proofs of following theorems are included: Theorem of Linial, Mansour and Nisan on the concentration of the Fourier coefficients of AC0 functions. Theorem of Kahn, Kalai and Linial on the influence of variables on Boolean functions The analysis of Margulis' expander graph by Gabber and Galil Transference Theorem of Banaszczyk Theorem of Therien on the column sums in matrices (mod m) Daniel Stefankovic. Master's Thesis, University of Chicago, Department of Computer Science, TR-2002-03.(TALK: PDF PPT ) MISC (Combinatorics, Game Theory, Graph Equations, ...) Worst-case synchronous grammar rules. We relate the problem of finding the best application of a Synchronous Context- Free Grammar (SCFG) rule during parsing to a Markov Random Field. This representation allows us to use the theory of expander graphs to show that the complexity of SCFG parsing of an input sentence of length N is Omega(N^(cn)), for a grammar with maximum rule length n and some constant c. This improves on the previous best result of Omega(N^(c.sqrt(n)). Daniel Gildea, Daniel Stefankovic. HLT-NAACL 2007 , pp.147-154, 2007. On the computational complexity of Nash equilibria for (0,1)-bimatrix games. Are games with simple payoffs simpler than general games? Suppose that each player can only win or lose. Can a Nash equilibrium be computed in polynomial time? Theorem: Deciding whether a 0-1 bimatrix game has more than one Nash Equilibrium is NP-hard. Bruno Codenotti, Daniel Stefankovic. Information Processing Letters, 94(3), pp.145-150, 2005. Solvability of graph inequalities. We investigate a new kind of graph inequality which allows graph variables with labeled vertices, and edges and vertices to connect them. We present a simple equation which is unsolvable (though not obviously so). The solvability of graph inequalities in general turns out to be undecidable. However, if we restrict the inequalities to the case of one variable (with one labeled vertex), there is a decision procedure in NEXP. Marcus Schaefer, Daniel Stefankovic. SIAM Journal of Discrete Mathematics 19(3), pp.728-743, 2005. Locally testable cyclic codes. Cyclic linear codes of block length n over a finite field F_q are the linear subspace of F_q^n that are invariant under a cyclic shift of their coordinates. A family of codes is good if all the codes in the family have constant rate and constant normalized distance (distance divided by block length). It is a long-standing open problem whether there exists a good family of cyclic linear codes (cf. [MS, p.270]). A code C is r-testable if there exist a randomized algorithm which, given a word x in F_q^n, adaptively selects r positions, checks the entries of x in the selected positions, and makes a decision (accept or reject x) based on the positions selected and the numbers found, such that if x then x is surely accepted; if dist(x,C)>=eps.n then x is probably rejected. ("dist" refers to Hamming distance.) A family of codes is locally testable if all members of the family are r-testable for some some constant r. This concept arose from holographic proofs/PCPs. Goldreich and Sudan [GS] asked whether there exist good, locally testable families of codes. It is an open problem whether there exists a good locally testable. Theorem: There is no family of good locally testable cyclic codes. Laszlo Babai, Amir Shpilka, Daniel Stefankovic. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 51(8), pp.2849-2858, 2005. A preliminary version appeared in FOCS 2003 , pp.116-125. (TALK: PDF PPT ) Set systems with restricted intersections modulo prime powers. We study set systems satisfying Frankl--Wilson-type conditions modulo prime powers. We prove that the size of such set systems is polynomially bounded, in contrast with V. Grolmusz's recent result that for non-prime-power moduli, no polynomial bound exists. Laszlo Babai, Peter Frankl, Samuel Kutin, Daniel Stefankovic. Journal of Combinatorial Theory A, 95(1), pp.39-73, 2001. Routing Effcient deadlock-free multidimensional interval routing in hypercube-like networks. We present deadlock-free packet/wormhole routing algorithms based on multidimensional interval schemes for certain hypercube related multiprocessor interconnection networks and give their analysis in termos of the compactness (i.e., the maximum number of intervals per link) and the buffer-size (i.e., the maximum number of buffers per node/link). The issue of simultaneous reduction of the compactness and the buffer-size is fundamental, worth to investigate and of practical importance, since the interval routing and wormhole routing have been industrially realized in INMOS Transputer C104 ROuter chips. Rastislav Kralovic, Branislav Rovan, Peter Ruzicka, Daniel Stefankovic. Computing and Informatics 21(3), pp.265-287, 2002. Acyclic orientations do not lead to optimal deadlock free packet routing algorithms. We consider the problem of designing deadlock-free shortest-path routing algorithms. A design technique based on acyclic orientations has proven to be useful for many important topologies e.g. meshes, tori, trees and hypercubes. It was not known whether this technique always leads to algorithms using asymptotically optimal number of buffers. We show this is not the case by presenting a graph of size N which has deadlock-free shortest-path routing algorithm using O(1) buffers, but every deadlock-free shortest-path routing algorithm based on acyclic orientations requires Omega(log N/ log log N) buffers. Daniel Stefankovic. Information Processing Letters 73(5-6), pp.221-225, 2000. (TALK: PDF PPT ) On the complexity of multidimensional routing schemes. We compare two different models of multi-dimensional interval routing schemes (MIRS) on the usual interconnection networks. We give an upper bound on the tradeoff between congestion and space complexity of multipath MIRS for general graphs. For any graph G and given 1<= s<= |V(G)| there exists a multipath (2+|V|/2s,1)-MIRS with congestion F+|V|.Delta.s, where F is the forwarding index of the graph G and Delta is the maximum degree of G. As a consequence, for planar graphs of constant bounded degree there exists a multipath (O(sqrt(|V(G)|)),1)-MIRS with asymptotically optimal congestion. Peter Ruzicka, Daniel Stefankovic. Theoretical Computer Science 254(2), pp.255-280, 2000. Efficient deadlock-free multidimensional interval routing in interconnection networks. We present deadlock-free packet (wormhole) routing algorithms based on multi-dimensional interval schemes for certain multiprocessor interconnection networks and give their analysis in terms of the compactness and the size (the maximum number of buffers per node (per link)). The issue of a simultaneous reduction of the compactness and the size is fundamental, worth to investigate and of practical importance, as interval routing and wormhole routing have been realized in INMOS Transputer C104 Router chips. In this paper we give an evidence that for some well-known interconnection networks there are efficient deadlock-free multidimensional interval routing schemes (DFMIRS) despite of a provable nonexistence of efficient deterministic shortest path interval routing schemes (IRS). For d-dimensional butterflies we give a d-dimensional DFMIRS with constant compactness and size, while each shortest path IRS is of the compactness at least 2^(d/2). For d-dimensional cube connected cycles we show a d-dimensional DFMIRS with compactness and size polynomial in d, while each shortest path IRS needs compactness at least 2^(d/2). For d-dimensional hypercubes (tori) we present a d-dimensional DFMIRS of compactness 1 and size 2 (4), while for shortest path IRS we can achieve the reduction to 2 (5) buffers with compactness 2^(d-1) (O(n^(d-1))). We also present a nonconstant lower bound (in the form Sqrt(d)) on the size of deadlock-free packet routing (based on acyclic orientation covering) for a special set of routing paths on d-dimensional hypercubes. Rastislav Kralovic, Branislav Rovan, Peter Ruzicka, Daniel Stefankovic. DISC 1998 , pp.273-287, 1998. On the complexity of Multi-Dimensional Interval Routing Schemes. Multi-dimensional interval routing schemes (MIRS) are an extension of interval routing schemes (IRS). We give an evidence that multi-dimensional interval routing schemes really help for certain well-known interconnection networks, for example, for n-dimensional butterfly there exists a full-information shortest path DIS{2,3}, while Kralovic-Ruzicka-Stefankovic have shown that a shortest path IRS needs Omega(2^(n/2)) intervals. Further, we compare the DIS-MIRS model and the CON-MIRS model introduced by Flammini, Gambosi, Nanni, and Tan. The main result is that the DIS-MIRS model is asymptotically stronger than the CON-MIRS model. We prove this by showing that for n-dimensional cube-connected-cycles there exists a full-information shortest path DIS{2n^3,n} while for any full-information shortest path \CON{k,d} it holds kd=Omega(2^(SQRT(n/2)))$. We also show that for n-dimensional} star any full-information shortest path CON{k,d} requires kd=Omega(2^(n/3)). The congestion is a common phenomenon in networks which can completely degrade their performance. Therefore it is reasonable to study routing schemes which are not necessarily shortest path, but allow high network throughput. We show that there exists a DIS{2,n+2} of n-dimensional} cube-connected-cycles with asymptotically optimal congestion. Moreover, we give an upper bound on the tradeoff between congestion and space complexity of multipath MIRS for general graphs. For any graph G and given 1\leq s\leq |V|$ there exists a multipath MIRS{2+|V|/2s,1} with congestion F+|V|*Delta*s, where F is the forwarding index of the graph G and Delta is the maximum degree of vertices in the graph G. As a consequence, for planar graphs of constant bounded degree there exists a multipath MIRS{O(SQRT(|V|)),1} with asymptotically optimal congestion. We also show that for planar graphs of bounded degree there exists (deterministic) O(SQRT(|V|)\log|V|)-IRS with asymptotically optimal congestion. Daniel Stefankovic. Mgr. thesis, Commenius University, 1998. The complexity of shortest path and dilation bounded interval routing. We show the following negative results about shortest path interval routing. Shuffle exchange graph of size M requires Omega(M^(1/2-eps)) intervals per edge. Cube connected cycles and butterfly graphs of size M require Omega(sqrt(M/log M)) intervals per edge. Previous lower bounds for these networks were only constant. For the dilation bounded interval routing we give a routing algorithm with the dilation (3/2)D using O(sqrt(M log M)) intervals per edge on any M-node network with the diameter D. It is the first nontrivial upper bound on the dilation bounded interval routing on general networks. Rastislav Kralovic, Peter Ruzicka, Daniel Stefankovic. Theoretical Computer Science 234(1-2), pp.85-107, 2000, A preliminary version appeared in Europar 1997 , LNCS 1300, pp.258-265, 1997. Disclaimer : This material is presented to ensure timely dissemination of scholarly and technical work. Copyright and all rights therein are retained by authors or by other copyright holders. All persons copying this information are expected to adhere to the terms and constraints invoked by each author's copyright. In most cases, these works may not be reposted without the explicit permission of the copyright holder. URCS People | URCS Home Page 
