 Siddhartha Banerjee Home Research Collaborators Teaching CV For wisdom, nothing to do, Other than know directly how things are. Milarepa - Song on the Six Perfections. I am an assistant professor in the School of Operations Research and Information Engineering (ORIE) at Cornell, as well as a field member in Departments of Computer Science , ECE , and the Center for Applied Mathematics . I am also a technical consultant at Lyft . I received my PhD in 2013 from the ECE Department at UT Austin, advised by Sanjay Shakkottai and Sujay Sanghavi . From 2013-2015 I was a postdoctoral researcher in the Social Algorithms Lab at Stanford, where I was hosted by Ramesh Johari and Ashish Goel . My research is supported by an NSF CAREER award , as well as grants from the NSF ( DMS 1839346 ) and the ARL Network Sciences division. Research I work on problems at the intersection of online decision-making and control , economics and computation , and network algorithms . In more detail: my research focusses on the design of algorithms and incentives for large-scale systems settings where many agents interact, either via an explicit network (e.g., in communications/social networks), or via implicit networks arising due to algorithms or economic mechanisms (e.g., online marketplaces, social-computing platforms, recommender systems). I am most excited by problems where theory provides sharp insights for the design of real platforms, and leads to algorithms and mechanisms which can be implemented in practice. For more details about my work, see my publications page. A large part of my recent research has focussed on the design of ridesharing platforms, building off from my work with Lyft since 2014. The following tutorial , given as part of the Simons Institute Real-Time Decision Making Boot Camp, provides a introduction to this work (more details are available in an upcoming chapter ). Contact Information Address : 229 Rhodes Hall Ithaca, NY 14850 Email: sbanerjee@cornell.edu Twitter: @banerjee_sid Sid Banerjee, Email: s... @cornell.edu 
