 Ron Brachman Research Leadership in Artificial Intelligence & Computer Science Home My background -> Our KR book -> Synthesis AI&ML series -> Yahoo! Labs leadership Contact me Photographs Brazil - March 2009 Welcome to brachman.org, the personal site of Ron Brachman. In 2016, I joined the Cornell Tech campus in New York City as the Director of the Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute , an innovative academic joint venture between the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology and Cornell University (I am also a Professor in Cornell's Department of Computer Science). The Jacobs Institute is the most experimental part of Cornell Tech, expressly chartered to push the boundaries of academia, to work closely with large industry and startups, to create innovative new programs and startup companies, and to strive for significant real-world impact, especially in New York City. The Institute prides itself in training new kinds of leaders for the digital age - those who understand science, love creating new things, believe in the value of real-world impact, and know how to lead in the 21st Century digital economy. The formal announcement of my appointment was made in late May of 2016. From April of 2012 until February of 2016, I was the Chief Scientist of Yahoo and the Head of Yahoo Labs. Prior to that, starting in September of 2005, I was the Associate Head of the Labs and essentially its Chief Operating Officer. Yahoo Labs was a worldwide research and applied science organization, with an exceptional team of scientists and research engineers. It included the company's Academic Relations organization, which I founded. Over its history, Yahoo Labs had teams in Sunnyvale and San Francisco, California; New York City; London, England; Haifa, Israel; Barcelona, Spain; Beijing, China; Bangalore, India; and Santiago, Chile. In early 2016, Yahoo corporate management decided to decentralize its research and applied science workforce, assigning its staff to engineering teams across the company. At that point, after an outstanding 10-year history, Yahoo Labs ceased to exist. Yahoo's blog post about the change is here . I have held many leadership positions in Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence throughout my career, including President of AAAI and Secretary-Treasurer of IJCAI, Inc. I am on advisory committees for Departments of Computer Science at Princeton University and Columbia University, and the Machine Learning Department at Carnegie Mellon University. I am on the technical advisory board of the Johns Hopkins University Human Language Technology Center of Excellence , and will soon be a member of the Board of Trustees of the International Computer Science Institute . I have also been serving on the Army Research Laboratory Technical Assessment Board of the National Academies. I currently serve as a member of the Board of Directors of the Computing Research Association , and also as its Treasurer. I am one of the editors of the Synthesis Lectures on Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning . I am also an advisor for an innovative startup called Segovia , which is building enterprise software to help fight extreme poverty, by supporting cash transfers to people in need in emerging economies and humanitarian situations. Prior to joining Yahoo in 2005, I was the Director of the Information Processing Technology Office (IPTO) a t DARPA, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. In that capacity Iled a new revitalized (and re-named)IPTO and DARPA towards a new generation of computational systems with cognitive capabilities, building on artificial intelligence and systems work from many parts of Computer Science. The Personalized Assistant that Learns (PAL) program that I created with help from Zach Lemnios led directly to the technology that Apple now offers in the form of the Siri intelligent assistant on its iPhone products. In February of 2002, I retired from AT&T Labs, after more than 16 years with AT&T Labs and Bell Labs. 
