 Close Emotion Regulation Project Description Emotions play a major role in how interpersonal conflicts unfold. Although several strategies and technological approaches have been proposed for emotion regulation, they often require conscious attention and effort. This often limits their efficacy in practice. In this project, we propose a different approach inspired by self-perception theory: noticing that people are often reacting to the perception of their own behavior, we artificially change their perceptions to influence their emotions. We conducted two studies to evaluate the potential of this approach by automatically and subtly altering how people perceive their own voice. In one study, participants that received voice feedback with a calmer tone during relationship conflicts felt less anxious. In the other study, participants who listened to their own voices with a lower pitch during contentious debates felt more powerful. The results of these studies show the potential of automatic and less perceptible emotion regulation systems. Close Close AlertnessScanner Project Description Alertness is a crucial component of our cognitive performance. Reduced alertness can negatively impact our memory consolidation, productivity and safety. To better track the ebb and flow of our alertness, we propose AlertnessScanner, a computer vision based system that collects in-situ pupil information to model alertness in the wild. We conducted two in-the-wild studies to evaluate the effectiveness of our solution, and we found that AlertnessScanner can assess alertness in a passive and unobtrusive way. As such, with AlertnessScanner installed on our phone, it can help track our alertness and we can better schedule our routine. Close Close mPerf Project Description This project aims to develop new approaches to assess and improve everyday job performance and wellbeing using mobile sensor data, theoretically-grounded models and efficient software implementations. To see more details, please go to mPerf website. Close Close Nutrilyzer Project Description Photoacoustic effect is a fundamental physics concept which is essentially the generation of sound due to the absorption of intensity modulated light or more generally EM waves by a certain material. We took this fundamental physics concept to build a mobile sensing system that can characterize the quality or nutritional characteristics of liquid food. The long-term vision of this work is to democratize food characterization using such a low cost, easy to use, mobile system which could enable consumers to test food before purchase and to put an indirect pressure on the food industry and government regulators to ensure quality. This work made the following contributions: (1) Proving the fundamental concept of the theory of photoacoustic effect with step-by-step experimentation. (2) Design and Implementation of a low-cost mobile photoacoustic sensing system. (3) Implementation of the signal processing and machine learning algorithm for liquid food characterization. (4) Evaluation of Nutrilyzer for milk protein concentration, milk adulterants, and alcohol concentration characterization. Close Close EmotionCheck Project Description Researchers have devised different interventions to help users regulate their emotions. However, many of the current interventions require a lot of attention and effort from the users, which may affect their concentration during ongoing tasks and even increase their stress. Therefore, a crucial question that arises is: How to design mobile interventions that can help users to regulate their emotions in real-time, without compromising their behavior or cognition? In this project we argue that it is possible to do that by developing mobile interventions that focus on implicit emotion regulation, in which users are able to regulate their emotions without the need for conscious supervision or explicit intentions. In particular, previous studies show that the way we perceive our bodily signals can directly influence our emotional experience. Inspired by these previous studies we designed and built EmotionCheck, which is a watch-like device that can help users to regulate their anxiety by changing their perception of their own heart rate in a subtle way. Close Close Eating Behavior Project Description Food and branding research groups have leveraged illusions to alter individuals perception of serving size, resulting in the individuals serving themselves smaller food portions. One method is using smaller plates or serving utensils, which causes individuals to serve smaller portions of food. This is due to a perception bias that causes individuals to perceive that there is more food on the plate due to the amount of surface area covered or that they have served more. By leveraging one of these illusions we built a persuasive technology that create the illusion that there is more food on a plate than there actually is, which could influence how much food users serve themselves. Close Close Clockwise Project Description We often think of ourselves as individuals with steady capabilities. However, converging strands of research indicate that this is not the case --- our biochemistry varies significantly over the course of a 24 hour period; and consequently our levels of alertness, productivity, physical activity, and even sensitivity to pain can vary according to the time of day. This project focuses on identifying novel measurements and interventions that can leverage these daily variations. Our findings demonstrate that phone usage patterns can be used to detect and predict individual daily variations indicative of temporal preference, sleep deprivation, and the effects of social jet lag. Being able to unobtrusively measure biological misalignments means there is also an opportunity for technology to play to our biological strengths. Incorporating an awareness of individual biochemical variations could have a significant impact on a wide range of technologies and help support increased well-being, productivity, and higher quality of sleep. Close Close Eureka Project Description Early detection of mental health changes in individuals with serious mental illness is critical for effective intervention. CrossCheck is the first step towards the passive monitoring of mental health indicators in patients with schizophrenia and paves the way towards relapse prediction and early intervention. Our results indicate that there are statistically significant associations between automatically tracked behavioral features related to sleep, mobility, conversations, smartphone usage and self-reported indicators of mental health in schizophrenia. Using these features we build inference models capable of accurately predicting aggregated scores of mental health indicators in schizophrenia with a mean error of 7.6% of the score range. Close Close Keppi Project Description Motivated by the need to support those managing chronic pain, we report on the iterative design, development, and evaluation of Keppi, a novel pressure-based tangible user interface (TUI) for the self-report of pain intensity. In-lab studies with 28 participants found individuals were able to use Keppi to reliably report low, medium, and high pain as well as map squeeze pressure to pain level. Based on insights from these evaluations, we ultimately created a wearable version of Keppi with multiple form factors, including a necklace, bracelet, and keychain. Interviews indicated high receptivity to the wearable design, which satisfied additional user-identified needs (e.g., discreet and convenient) and highlighted key directions for the continued refinement of tangible devices for pain assessment. Close Close DoppleSleep Project Description DoppleSleep is a contactless sleep sensing system that continuously and unobtrusively tracks sleep quality using commercial off-the-shelf radar modules. DoppleSleep provides a single sensor solution to track sleep- related physical and physiological variables including coarse body movements and subtle and fine-grained chest, heart movements due to breathing and heartbeat. By integrating vital signals and body movement sensing, DoppleSleep achieves 89.6% recall with Sleep vs. Wake classification and 80.2% recall with REM vs. Non-REM classification compared to EEG-based sleep sensing. Lastly, it provides several objective sleep quality measurements including sleep onset latency, number of awakenings, and sleep efficiency. The contactless nature of DoppleSleep obviates the need to instrument the users body with sensors. Lastly, DoppleSleep is implemented on an ARM microcontroller and a smart- phone application that are benchmarked in terms of power and resource usage. Close Close MyBehavior Project Description Mobile phone based behavior change applications have shown great promise for health management over the years. Many of these applications either operate by prescribing generic suggestions or require direct intervention from a specialist to personalize. Generic suggestion based systems often fail to personalize to user's context, and providing personalized specialist feedback is impossible to achieve at scale. However, with development of mobile phone based activity recognition research, it is now possible to understand individual user behavior and context at scale. In this paper, we propose a mobile phone based suggestion engine that learn user's physical activity and food intake behavior, and adapt suggestion accordingly. A lightweight Bandit algorithm is used to provide a series of suggestions by exploiting user's frequent past good behaviors, and seldom exploring non-frequent ones. Activity recognition to suggestion making happens inside the phone thus protecting user privacy. 2 week deployment of our software showed that users did more activity with adaptive suggestion compared to non-adaptive scheme. Qualitative interviewing reveled users finding adaptive suggestion more closer to their life's context than generic prescriptive counterpart. Close Close Moodrhythm Project Description Rhythms guide our lives. Our biological clocks tell us when we need to sleep, eat and wake. But our use of technology can interrupt and obstruct these rhythms, making it difficult for our bodies to get what they need to stay healthy and balanced. MoodRhythm helps individuals to live a more naturally rhythmic day, ensuring that they can maintain balanced and healthy lives. The key goals of MoodRhythm is to use patients' smartphones to both actively and passively track daily rhythms and to provide affective feedback that can help patients to maintain a regular daily rhythm, while feeding this clinically valuable information back to their physicians. Close Close Saint Project Description Recently in mobile and wearable computing, we have seen a rise in continuous sensing across different types of sensors and in device processing. Combination of these array of sensors and corresponding inference have capability to generate detailed non-trivial multidimensional information about the environment and the individual carrying the device. Also, there is a growing number of third-party applications that use these information for context-aware-computing, personal well-being, and just-in-time health care. In this paper, we propose SAINT, a scalable sensing and real-time sensing and inference toolkit for mobile devices. SAINT uses a client-server architecture. The server can support clients with different sensing (e.g., accelerometer and location) and inference (e.g., human speech) streams on-demand. If more than one client ask for the same sensing or inference data then the server performs necessary computation (e.g., recognizing human speech) once and serves all the clients needing such data with inter process communication. Furthermore, internally SAINT server enables easy sharing of sensing and inference data among different recognition modules (e.g., sleep sensing can use movement and speech inference data) over a simple middle-man $bus$ like structure. This bus architecture makes any sensing or inference streams available for consumption for any other inference module. This sharing enables complex inference possible by reusing components that has been built before. We show that bus and client server architecture incur low overhead while enabling exponential increase in cpu time and power usage on the number of clients. Also, developers found SAINT framework easy to program and deploy. Close Close StressSense Project Description Stress can have long term adverse effects on individuals physical and mental well-being. Changes in the speech production process is one of many physiological changes that happen during stress. Microphones, embedded in mobile phones and carried ubiquitously by people, provide the opportunity to continuously and non-invasively monitor stress in real-life situations. We propose StressSense for unobtrusively recognizing stress from human voice using smartphones. We investigate methods for adapting a one-size-fitsall stress model to individual speakers and scenarios. We demonstrate that the StressSense classifier can robustly identify stress across multiple individuals in diverse acoustic environments: using model adaptation StressSense achieves 81% and 76% accuracy for indoor and outdoor environments, respectively. We show that StressSense can be implemented on commodity Android phones and run in real-time. To the best of our knowledge, StressSense represents the first system to consider voice based stress detection and model adaptation in diverse real-life conversational situations using smartphones. Close Close BeWell Project Description BeWell is the next generation in mobile health apps. The BeWell app continuously tracks user behaviors along three key health dimensions without requiring any user input. Classification algorithms run directly on the phone to automatically infer the user's sleep duration, physical activity, and social interaction. In addition to classifying activities that influence health, BeWell also computes a weighted score between 0 and 100 for each health dimension. A score of a 100 indicates that the user is matching or exceeding recommended guidelines (averaging eight hours sleep per day, for example). BeWell also promotes improved behavioral patterns via persuasive feedback as part of an animated aquatic ecosystem rendered as an ambient display on the smartphone's wallpaper screen. Close Close Mental Wellbeing Project Description The study is aimed at comparing the effectiveness of paper-based survey tools with that of a passive electronic mobile sensing device (MSP) for the measurement of overall physical and social activity of eight senior citizens at Kendal Continuing Care Retirement Community. Before the start of the study, the Yale Physical Activity Survey, SF-36, Friendship Scale, and the CES-D were used to obtain a baseline understanding of subjects physical, and social wellbeing. The study length was 15 consecutive days. Each subject was provided a charged, and activated device to wear at the waist during his/her waking hours and was instructed to continue performing their daily activities. Devices were collected at the end of the day for data extraction and charging. We are currently analyzing the results of the device and comparing them with the scores generated by the current paper-based surveys. Close Close Population Scale Activity Recognition Project Description The rising popularity of the sensor-equipped smartphone is changing the possible scale and scope of human activity inference. The diversity in user population seen in large user bases can overwhelm conventional one-size-fits-all classication approaches. Although personalized models are better able to handle population diversity, they often require increased effort from the end user during training and are computationally expensive. In this work, we propose an activity classification framework that is scalable and can tractably handle an increasing number of users. Scalability is achieved by maintaining distinct groups of similar users during the training process, which makes it possible to account for the differences between users without resorting to training individualized classifiers. The proposed framework keeps user burden low by leveraging crowd-sourced data labels, where simple natural language processing techniques in combination with multi-instance learning are used to handle labeling errors introduced by low-commitment everyday users. Experiment results on a large public dataset demonstrate that the framework can cope with population diversity irrespective of population size. Close Close NeuroPhone Project Description Neural signals are everywhere just like mobile phones. We propose to use neural signals to control mobile phones for hands-free, silent and effortless human-mobile interaction. Until recently, devices for detecting neural signals have been costly, bulky and fragile. We present the design, implementation and evaluation of the NeuroPhone system, which allows neural signals to drive mobile phone applications on the iPhone using cheap off-the-shelf wireless electroencephalography (EEG) headsets. We demonstrate a brain-controlled address book dialing app, which works on similar principles to P300-speller brain-computer interfaces: the phone flashes a sequence of photos of contacts from the address book and a P300 brain potential is elicited when the flashed photo matches the person whom the user wishes to dial. EEG signals from the headset are transmitted wirelessly to an iPhone, which natively runs a lightweight classifier to discriminate P300 signals from noise. When a persons contact photo triggers a P300, his/her phone number is automatically dialed. NeuroPhone breaks new ground as a brain-mobile phone interface for ubiquitous pervasive computing. We discuss the challenges in making our initial prototype more practical, robust, and reliable as part of our on-going research. Close PAC Cornell University Toggle navigation Home Team Projects News Publications Funding Alumni People-Aware Computing Lab The People-Aware Computing group develops mobile sensing systems for capturing, learning, and interpreting people's context, activities and social networks. We are building applications that improve people's well-being and quality of life. Our Team Tanzeem Choudhury Professor Jean Costa PhD Candidate Alex Adams PhD Candidate Vincent Tseng PhD Candidate Kyle Choi Researcher Di Chen MPS Student Leah Womelsdorf Undergraduate Maddie Franke Undergraduate Foteini Kriezi Undergraduate Projects All Wearables Health Behavior Change Behavior Change Emotion Regulation Health Alertness Scanner Health mPerf Systems Nutrilyzer Wearables EmotionCheck Methods Eating Behavior Studies Clockwise Studies Eureka Studies Keppi Systems DoppleSleep Systems MyBehavior Past Projects Systems Moodrhythm Systems Saint Methods StressSense Systems BeWell Studies Mental Wellbeing Methods Population Scale Recognition Systems NeuroPhone News Tanzeem Choudhury named ACM Distinguished Member! Tanzeem Choudhury has been named an ACM Distinguished Member for Outstanding Scientific Contributions to Computing . AlertnessScanner featured on multiple media! AlertnessScanner has been featured in Cornell Cronicle , The Cornell Daily Sun , and New Atlas ! Congratulations to Tauhidur on finishing Ph.D. and starting as faculty! Tauhidur finished his Ph.D. in the winter of 2017 and started as assistant professor at UMass Amherst. Congratulations to Saeed on finishing Ph.D. and starting as faculty! Saeed finished his Ph.D. in the summer of 2017 and started as assistant professor at Penn State. Congratulations to Tanzeem for Receiving 10-Year Impact Award! Tanzeem received Pervasive 10 Year Impact Award at UbiComp 2016. Best Paper Award at UbiComp 2016! Paper "EmotionCheck: leveraging bodily signals and false feedback to regulate our emotions." got Best Paper Award at UbiComp 2016. Continue Reading Publications 2018 Mashfiqui Rabbi, Min SH Aung, Geri Gay, M Cary Reid, and Tanzeem Choudhury. Feasibility and Acceptability of Mobile PhoneBased Auto-Personalized Physical Activity Recommendations for Chronic Pain Self-Management: Pilot Study on Adults. Journal of Medical Internet Research. 2018;20(10):e10147. Elizabeth Rey, Aadhar Jain, Saeed Abdullah, Tanzeem Choudhury, and David Erickson. Personalized Stress monitoring: A Smartphone-enabled System for Quantification of Salivary Cortisol. Personal and Ubiquitous Computing, 1-11. Vincent W.-S. Tseng, Saeed Abdullah, Jean Costa, and Tanzeem Choudhury. AlertnessScanner: What Do Your Pupils Tell About Your Alertness. Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Human-Computer Interaction with Mobile Devices and Services (MobileHCI 2018). Saeed Abdullah and Tanzeem Choudhury. Sensing Technologies for Monitoring Serious Mental Illnesses. IEEE MultiMedia. 2018 Jan;25(1):61-75. Alexander T. Adams, Elizabeth L. Murnane, Phil Adams, Michael Elfenbein, Pamara F. Chang, Shruti Sannon, Geri Gay, and Tanzeem Choudhury. Keppi: A Tangible User Interface for Self-Reporting Pain. Proceedings of the 2018 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. Jean Costa, Malte F. Jung, Mary Czerwinski, Francois Guimbretiere, Trinh Le, and Tanzeem Choudhury. Regulating Feelings During Interpersonal Conflicts by Changing Voice Self-perception. Proceedings of the 2018 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. 2017 Rui Wang, Weichen Wang, Min S. H. Aung, Dror Ben-Zeev, Rachel Brian, Andrew T. Campbell, Tanzeem Choudhury, Marta Hauser, John Kane, Emily A. Scherer, and Megan Walsh. Predicting Symptom Trajectories of Schizophrenia using Mobile Sensing. Proceedings of the ACM on Interactive, Mobile, Wearable and Ubiquitous Technologies 1, no. 3 (2017): 110. Jean Costa, Alexander T. Adams, Malte F. Jung, Franois Guimbretire, and Tanzeem Choudhury. EmotionCheck: A Wearable Device to Regulate Anxiety through False Heart Rate Feedback. GetMobile: Mobile Computing and Communications, 21(2), pp.22-25. Min Hane Aung, Mark Matthews, and Tanzeem Choudhury. Sensing behavioral symptoms of mental health and delivering personalized interventions using mobile technologies. Depression and anxiety (2017). Saeed Abdullah, Elizabeth L. Murnane, Mark Matthews and Tanzeem Choudhury. Book Chapters. In: Rehg J., Murphy S., Kumar S. (eds) Mobile Health: Sensors, Analytic Methods, and Applications, July 2017pp 35-58. Springer International Publishing, Mashfiqui Rabbi, Min Hane Aung, and Tanzeem Choudhury. Towards Health Recommendation Systems: An Approach for Providing Automated Personalized Health Feedback from Mobile Data. In: Rehg J., Murphy S., Kumar S. (eds) Mobile Health: Sensors, Analytic Methods, and Applications, July 2017, pp 519-542, Springer International Publishing. Dror Ben-Zeev, Rachel Brian, Rui Wang, Weichen Wang, Andrew T. Campbell, Min S. H.Aung, Michael Merrill, Vincent W.-S. Tseng, Tanzeem Choudhury, Marta Hauser, John M. Kane, Emily A.Scherer. CrossCheck: Integrating Self-Report, Behavioral Sensing, and Smartphone Use to Identify Digital Indicators of Psychotic Relapse. Psychiatric Rehabilitation Journal. 2017 Apr 3. doi: 10.1037/prj0000243. 2016 Tauhidur Rahman, Alexander Adams, Perry Schein, Aadhar Jain, David Erickson, Tanzeem Choudhury. Nutrilyzer: A Mobile System for Characterizing Liquid Food with Photoacoustic Effect. The 14th ACM Conference on Embedded Networked Sensor Systems (SenSys 2016). Tauhidur Rahman, Mary Czerwinski, Ran Gilad-Bachrach, Paul Johns. Predicting About-to-Eat Moments for Just-in-Time Eating Intervention. Digital Health 2016. Best Paper Award Jean Costa, Alexander T. Adams, Malte F. Jung, Francois Guimbetiere, Tanzeem Choudhury. EmotionCheck: leveraging bodily signals and false feedback to regulate our emotions. In Proceedings of the 2016 ACM International Joint Conference on Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing, 2016. Best Paper Award Vincent W. S. Tseng, Saeed Abdullah, Michael Merrill, Min Hane Aung, Franziska Wittleder and Tanzeem Choudhury. Assessing Mental Health Issues on College Campuses: Preliminary Findings from a Pilot Study. In UbiComp workshop on Mental Health and Well-being: Sensing and Intervention 2016. Gillian M. Sandstrom, Vincent W. S. Tseng, Jean Costa, Fabian Okeke, Tanzeem Choudhury, Elizabeth W. Dunn. Talking Less during Social Interactions Predicts Enjoyment: A Mobile Sensing Pilot Study. PLoS ONE 11(7): e0158834. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0158834. Saeed Abdullah, Elizabeth Murnane, Mark Matthews, Matthew Kay, Julie Kientz, Geri Gay, and Tanzeem Choudhury. Cognitive rhythms: unobtrusive and continuous sensing of alertness using a mobile phone. In Proceedings of the 2016 ACM International Joint Conference on Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing, 2016. Saeed Abdullah, Mary Czerwinski, Gloria Mark, and Paul Johns. Shining (blue) light on creative ability. In Proceedings of the 2016 ACM International Joint Conference on Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing, 2016. Rui Wang, Min S. H. Aung, Saeed Abdullah, Rachel Brian, Andrew T. Campbell, Tanzeem Choudhury, Marta Hauser, John Kane, Michael Merrill,Emily A. Scherer, Vincent W. S. Tseng, and Dror Ben-Zeev. CrossCheck: Toward passive sensing and detection of mental health changes in people with schizophrenia. In Proceedings of the 2016 ACM International Joint Conference on Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing, 2016. Elizabeth Murnane, Saeed Abdullah, Mark Matthews, Matthew Kay, Julie Kientz, Geri Gay, Tanzeem Choudhury, Dan Cosley. Mobile Manifestations of Circadian Rhythms of Attention. MobileHCI, 2016. Best paper award (top 2 papers). Mark Matthews, Saeed Abdullah, Geri Gay, Tanzeem Choudhury. Detecting and Capitalizing on Physiological Dimensions of Psychiatric Illness. Conference on Physiological Computing Systems. PhyCS, 2016 . (In Press) Mark Matthews, Saeed Abdullah, Elizabeth Murnane, Steven Voida, Tanzeem Choudhury, Geri Gay, Ellen Frank. Development and evaluation of a smartphone-based measure of social rhythms for bipolar disorder. Special Issue of Assessment on measuring, modeling, and implementing dynamic processes. Assessment (ASM) (In Press) Saeed Abdullah, Mark Matthews, Ellen Fran, Gavin Doherty, Geri Gay, and Tanzeem Choudhury. Automatic Detection of Social Rhythms in Bipolar Disorder. Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association Min S. H. Aung, Faisal Alquaddoomi, Andy Hsieh, Mashfiqui Rabbi, Longqi Yang, J.P. Pollak, Deborah Estrin, and Tanzeem Choudhury. Leveraging Multi-Modal Sensing for Mobile Health: a Case Review in Chronic Pain. IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing (In Press) Eun Kyoung Choe, Saeed Abdullah, Mashfiqui Rabbi, Edison Thomaz, Daniel A. Epstein, Matthew Kay, Felicia Cordeiro, Gregory D. Abowd, Tanzeem Choudhury, James Fogarty, Bongshin Lee, Mark Matthews, and Julie A. Kientz. Semi-Automated Tracking: A Balanced Approach for Self-Monitoring Applications. IEEE Pervasive 2015 Dror Ben-Zeev, Rui Wang, Saeed Abdullah, Rachel Brian, Emily A Scherer, Lisa A Mistler, Marta Hauser, John M Kane, Andrew Campbell, Tanzeem Choudhury. Mobile Behavioral Sensing for Outpatients and Inpatients with Schizophrenia. Journal of Psychiatric Services, 2015. Tauhidur Rahman, Alexander T. Adams, Ruth Vinisha Ravichandran, Mi Zhang, Shwetak N. Patel, Julie A. Kientz, Tanzeem Choudhury. DoppleSleep: A Contactless Unobtrusive Sleep Sensing System Using Short-Range Doppler Radar. The 2015 ACM International Joint Conference on Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing ( Ubicomp 2015 ). Elizabeth L. Murnane, Saeed Abdullah, Mark Matthews, Tanzeem Choudhury, Geri Gay. A Social (Media) Jet Lag: How Usage of Social Technology Can Modulate and Reflect Circadian Rhythms. The 2015 ACM International Joint Conference on Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing ( Ubicomp 2015 ). Mashfiqui Rabbi, Min Hane Aung, Mi Zhang and Tanzeem Choudhury. MyBehavior: Automatic Personalized Health Feedback from User Behavior and Preference using Smartphones. The 2015 ACM International Joint Conference on Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing ( Ubicomp 2015 ). Alexander T Adams, Jean Costa, Malte F. Jung, Tanzeem Choudhury. Mindless Computing: Designing Technologies to Subtly Influence Behavior. The 2015 ACM International Joint Conference on Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing ( Ubicomp 2015 ). Mark Matthews, Stephen Voida, Saeed Abdullah, Gavin Doherty, Tanzeem Choudhury, Sangha Im, Geri Gay. In Situ Design for Mental Illness: Considering the Pathology of Bipolar Disorder in mHealth Design. International Conference on Human-Computer Interaction with Mobile Devices and Services Proceedings (MobileHCI), 2015. Mashfiqui Rabbi, Jean Costa, Fabian Okeke, Max Schachere, Mi Zhang, and Tanzeem Choudhury. An Intelligent Crowd-worker Selection Approach for Reliable Content Labeling of Food Images. The Proceedings of Wireless Health 2015 . Tauhidur Rahman, Alexander T. Adams, Mi Zhang, Erin Cherry, Tanzeem Choudhury. BodyBeat: Eavesdropping on our Body Using a Wearable Microphone. GetMobile: Mobile Computing and Communications. Volume 19 Issue 1, January 2015, Pages 14-17 Mashfiqui Rabbi, Angela Pfammatter, Mi Zhang, Bonnie Spring, and Tanzeem Choudhury. Automated Personalized Feedback for Physical Activity and Dietary Behavior Change With Mobile Phones: A Randomized Controlled Trial on Adults. JMIR mHealth uHealth 2015;3(2):e42 Marianne Schmid Mast, Daniel Gatica-Perez, Denise Frauendorfer, Laurent Nguyen, and Tanzeem Choudhury. Social Sensing for Psychology: Automated Interpersonal Behavior Assessment. Current Directions in Psychological Science Saeed Abdullah, Elizabeth L. Murnane, Jean Costa, and Tanzeem Choudhury. Collective Smile: Measuring Societal Happiness from Geolocated Images . In Proceedings of the 18th ACM Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work & Social Computing ( CSCW 2015 ). Jaime Snyder, Mark Matthews, Jacqueline Chien, Pamara F Chang, Emily Sun, Saeed Abdullah, Geri Gay. MoodLight: Exploring Personal and Social Implications of Ambient Display of Biosensor Data . In Proceedings of the 18th ACM Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work & Social Computing ( CSCW 2015 ). Jean Costa, Rahmtin Robati, Elizabeth L. Murnane, and Tanzeem Choudhury. It's Not Only About Grievances: Emotional Dynamics in Social Media during the Brazilian Protests. . The 9th International Conference on Web and Social Media ( ICWSM 2015 ) 2014 Saeed Abdullah, Mark Matthews, Elizabeth L. Murnane, Geri Gay, and Tanzeem Choudhury. Towards Circadian Computing: Early to Bed and Early to Rise Makes Some of Us Unhealthy and Sleep Deprived . The 2014 ACM International Joint Conference on Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing ( UbiComp 2014 ). Mark Matthews, Saeed Abdullah, Geri Gay, and Tanzeem Choudhury. Tracking Mental Well-Being: Balancing Rich Sensing and Patient Needs . Computer , 47.4(2014). IEEE Computer Society . Tauhidur Rahman, Alexander T Adams, Mi Zhang, Erin Cherry, Bobby Zhou, Huaishu Peng, Tanzeem Choudhury. BodyBeat: A Mobile System for Sensing Non-Speech Body Sounds . International Conference on Mobile Systems, Applications, and Services (MobiSys), 2014 . Tauhidur Rahman, Mi Zhang, Stephen Voida, and Tanzeem Choudhury Towards Accurate Non-Intrusive Recollection of Stress Levels Using Mobile Sensing and Contextual Recall . International Conference on Pervasive Computing Technologies for Healthcare, 2014 . Phil Adams, Mashfiqui Rabbi, Tauhidur Rahman, Mark Matthews, Amy Voida, Geri Gay, Tanzeem Choudhury, and, Stephen Voida. Towards Personal Stress Informatics: Comparing Minimally Invasive Techniques for Measuring Daily Stress in the Wild . International Conference on Pervasive Computing Technologies for Healthcare, 2014 . Jamie Snyder, Eric Baumer, Stephen Voida, Phil Adams, Megan Halpern, Tanzeem Choudhury, and Geri Gay. Making Things Visible: Opportunities and Tensions in Visual Approaches for Design Research . Human-Computer Interaction . 2013 Nicholas Lane, Ye Xu, Hong Lu, Shaohan Hu, Tanzeem Choudhury, Andrew Campbell, and Feng Zhao. Community Similarity Networks . To appear in the Journal of Personal and Ubiquitous Computing . Chen Zhenyu, Nicholas Lane, Guiseppe Cardone, Mu Lin, Tanzeem Choudhury, and Andrew Campbell. Unobtrusive Sleep Monitoring Using Smartphones. To appear in the Proceedings of Pervasive Health , 2013. Stephen Voida, Tanzeem Choudhury, Geri Gay, Mark Matthews, Phil Adams, Mashfiqui Rabbi, JP Pollak, Mengxi Chi, Matthew Green, Andrew Campbell, Nic Lane, and Hong Lu. Personal Informatics Can Be Stressful: Collecting, Reflecting, and Embedding Stress Data in Personal Informatics. To Appear in the Proceeding of Personal Informatics Workshop, CHI. 2012 Mu Lin, Nicholas Lane, Mashfiqui Rabbi, Xiaochao Yang, Hong Lu, Giuseppe Cardone, Shahid Ali, Afsaneh Doryab, Ethan Berke, Andrew Campbell, and Tanzeem Choudhury. A Scalable Approach for Multidimensional Wellbeing Monitoring: Community and Energy Based Adaptation of Mobile Sensing and Feedback. Appears in the Proceedings of Wireless Health 2012 , October 2012. Hong Lu, Mashfiqui Rabbi, Gokul Chittaranjan, Denise Frauendorfer, Marianne Schmidt, Andrew Campbell, Daneil Gatica-Perez, and Tanzeem Choudhury. StressSense: Detecting Stress in Unconstrained Acoustic Environments using Smartphones . Appears in the Proceedings of Ubicomp 2012 , September 2012. Saeed Abdullah, Nicholas Lane, and Tanzeem Choudhury. Towards Population Scale Activity Recognition: A Scalable Framework for Handling Data Diversity . Appears in the Proceedings of AAAI 2012 , July 2012. Andrew Campbell and Tanzeem Choudhury. From Smart Phones to Cognitive Phones . Appears in IEEE Pervasive , Volume 11, Issue 3, Pages 7-11, July-September 2012. 2011 Nicholas Lane, Ye Xu, Hong Lu, Shane Eisenman, Tanzeem Choudhury, and Andrew Campbell. Cooperative Communities (CoCo): Exploiting Social Networks for Large-scale Modeling of Human Behavior. To appear in IEEE Pervasive Special Issue on Large-scale Opportunistic Sensing. Mashfiqui Rabbi, Shahid Ali, Tanzeem Choudhury, and Ethan Berke. Passive and In-situ Assessment of Mental and Physical Well-being using Mobile Sensors . To appear in the Proceedings of Ubicomp 2011 , September 2011. Beijing, China. Nicholas Lane, Ye Xu, Hong Lu, Shaohan Hu, Tanzeem Choudhury, Andrew Campbell, and Feng Zhao. Enabling Large-scale Human Activity Inference on Smartphones using Community Similarity Networks . Appears in the Proceedings of Ubicomp 2011 , September 2001. Beijing, China. Best paper nominee (5 out of 300) Ethan Berke, Tanzeem Choudhury, Shahid Ali, and Mashfiqui Rabbi. Objective Sensing of Activity and Sociability: Mobile Sensing in the Community . Appears in the Annals of Family Medicine, Volume 9, Issue 4, Pages 344-350, July 2011. [ commentary ] Nicholas D. Lane, Tanzeem Choudhury, Andrew Campbell, Mashfiqui Mohammod, Mu Lin, Xiaochao Yang, Afsaneh Doryab, Hong Lu, Shahid Ali and Ethan Berke, BeWell: A Smartphone Application to Monitor, Model and Promote Wellbeing , Pervasive Health 2011-- 5th International ICST Conference on Pervasive Computing Technologies for Healthcare, Dublin, 23-26 May 2011 Danny Wyatt, Tanzeem Choudhury, James Kitts, and Jeff Bilmes. Inferring Colocation and Conversation Networks from Privacy-senstive Audio with Implications for Computational Social Science. Appears in ACM Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology, volume 1, issue 2, January 2011. 2010 Nic Lane, Emiliano Miluzzo, Hong Lu, Daniel Peebles, Tanzeem Choudhury, and Andrew Campbell. A Survey of Mobile Phone Sensing . Appears in IEEE Communications, September 2010. Hong Lu, Jun Yang, Zhigang Lu, Nic Lane, Tanzeem Choudhury, and Andrew Campbell. The Jigsaw Continuous Sensing Engine for Mobile phone Applications . Appears in the proceedings of Sensys 2010. Andrew T. Campbell, Tanzeem Choudhury, Shaohan Hu, Hong Lu, Matthew Mukerjee, Mashfiqui Rabbi, and Rajeev Raizada. NeuroPhone: Brain-Mobile Phone Interface using a Wireless EEG Headset . Appears in the Proceedings of MobiHeld 2010. Danny Wyatt, Tanzeem Choudhury, and Jeff Bilmes. Discovering Long Range Properties of Social Networks with Multi-Valued Time-Inhomogeneous Models . Appears in the Proceedings of AAAI 2010. July 2010. Atlanta, GA. Daniel Peebles, Hong Lu, Nic Lane, Tanzeem Choudhury, and Andrew Campbell. Community-Guided Learning: Exploiting Mobile Sensor Users to Model Human Behavior . Appears in the Proceedings of AAAI 2010. July 2010. Atlanta, GA. Emiliano Miluzzo, CoryCornelius, Ashwin Ramaswamy, Tanzeem Choudhur, Andrew T. Campbell, Zhigang Liu. Darwin Phones: The Evolution of Sensing and Inference on Mobile Phones . Appears in Proceedings of MobiSys 2010. June 2010, San Francisco, CA. 2009 Danny Wyatt, Tanzeem Choudhury, and Jeff Bilmes. Dynamic Multi-Valued Network Models for Predicting Face-to-Face Conversations . In the NIPS Workshop on Analyzing Networks and Learning with Graphs. December 2009, Whistler, BC. Janani Sriram, Minho Shin, Tanzeem Choudhury, and David Kotz. Activity-aware ECG-based Patient Authentication for Remote Health Monitoring . Appears in the Proceedings of the International Conference on Multi-Modal Interfaces (ICMI-MLMI) 2009. November 2009, Cambridge, MA. Hong Lu, Wei Pan, Nic Lane, Tanzem Choudhury, and Andrew Campbell. Sound Sense: Scalable Sound Sensing for People-Centric Applications on Mobile Phones . Appear in the Proceedings of Mobisys 2009. June 2009, Krakow, Poland. Beverly Harrison, Sunny Consolvo, and Tanzeem Choudhury. Using Multi-modal Sensing for Human Activity Modeling in the Real World . Appears in the Handbook of Ambient Intelligence and Smart Environments, Springer Verlag 2009. Predrag Klasjna, Sunny Consolvo, Tanzeem Choudhury, and Richard Beckwith. Exploring Privacy Concerns about Personal Sensing . Appears in the Proceedings of Pervasive 2009. May 2009, Nara, Japan. 2008 Danny Wyatt, Tanzeem Choudhury, Jeff Bilmes, and James Kitts. Towards Automated Social Analysis of Situated Speech Data . Appears in the Proceedings of Ubicomp 2008. September 2008, Seoul, South Korea. Danny Wyatt, Tanzeem Choudhury, and Jeff Bilmes. Learning Hidden Curved Exponential Random Graph Models to Infer Face-to-Face Interaction Networks from Situated Speech Data . Appears in the Proceedings of AAAI 2008. July 2008, Chicago, IL. Mirco Musolesi, Emiliano Miluzzo, Nicholas D. Lane, Shane B. Eisenman, Tanzeem Choudhury, Andrew T. Campbell, The Second Life of a Sensor: Integrating Real-world Experience in Virtual Worlds using Mobile Phones , Appears in the Proceedings of Fifth Workshop on Embedded Networked Sensors (HotEmNets 2008), June 2008. Charlottesville, VA. Tanzeem Choudhury, Gaetano Borriello, et.al. The Mobile Sensing Platform: An Embedded System for Activity Recognition . Appears in the IEEE Pervasive Magazine - Special Issue on Activity-Based Computing, April 2008. Funding Alumni Danny Wyatt (PhD) Facebook Nic Lane (PhD) Bell Labs and Oxford University Mu Lin (PhD) Lyft Hong Lu (PhD) Intel Mi Zhang (postdoc) Assistant Professor, MSU Stephen Voida (postdoc) Assistant Professor, CU-Boulder Mashfiqui Rabbi (PhD) Postdoctoral Fellow, Harvard University Hane Aung (postdoc) Data Scientist, HealthRhythms Saeed Abdullah (PhD) Assistant Professor, Penn State Mike Merrill (Undergrad) Data Scientist, HealthRhythms Tauhidur Rahman (PhD) Assistant Professor, UMass Amherst Mark Matthews (postdoc) Chief Technology Officer, HealthRhythms Akane Sano (Visiting Scientist) Assistant Professor, Rice University Fund our work on Gates Hall, Campus Road, Ithaca, NY 14853 
