 Skip to main content SEARCH CORNELL: Pages People more options K.-Y. Daisy Fan Senior Lecturer, Computer Science Contact Info Teaching Research Publications Presentations Biography Computer Science Cornell University 459 Gates Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 Tel: 1.607.255.1181 Fax: 1.607.255.4428 Email: dfan @ cs.cornell.edu Contact Information Office hours: When classes are in session, please use my office hours for advising and course questions. Or contact my administrative assistant for an appointment. Administrative assistant: Randy Hess rbh27 @ cornell.edu, 1.607.255.0985, 401 Gates Hall Teaching Book Insight Through Computing: A MATLAB Introduction to Computational Science and Engineering with Van Loan Courses CS 1112 Introduction to Computing Using MATLAB CS 1132 Short Course in MATLAB CS 1110 Introduction to Computing Using Python CS/INFO 1305 Computation and Culture in a Digital Age CS 100J Introduction to Computer Programming (Java) SYSEN 5240 Metaheuristics and Data Visualization Explorations in Engineering Seminar Software MATLAB-based Simulator for the iRobot Create with Salzberger and Kress-Gazit Research My interests include collaborative learning methodologies and technologies in computer science and engineering education, application of systems-analysis techniques for water resources and environmental problems, and development of numerically efficient optimization methods for engineering applications. Problems I have investigated include optimal control of multiple-reservoir operation using stochastic dynamic programming and river basin water quality management. Publications Blended Instruction in a Programming Course: Lessons Learned. In Proceedings of the 2014 Frontiers in Education Conference , Madrid, Spain, October, 2014. Teaching Computer Programming to First-Year Undergraduates with a MATLAB Based Robot Simulator . MATLAB Newsletter , July, 2012. Using the Matlab-based iRobot Create Simulator to Engage Introductory Computer Programming Students in Program Development and Observing Computational Errors. In Proceedings of the 2011 Frontiers in Education Conference , Rapid City, South Dakota, October, 2011. With K. Conway Dimiduk. Insight Through Computing: A MATLAB Introduction to Computational Science and Engineering. 2010. Society of Industrial and Applied Mathematics. With C. Van Loan. A New Start: Innovative Introductory AI-Centered Courses at Cornell. In AAAI Symposium on Using AI to Motivate Greater Participation in Computer Science (AAAI tech report SS-08-08) , Palo Alto, California, March, 2008. With E. Breck, D. Easley, J. Kleinberg, L. Lee, J. Wofford, and R. Zabih. A comparison and evaluation of personal response systems in introductory computer programming. In Proceedings of the 2006 ASEE Annual Conference & Exposition , Chicago, Illinois, June, 2006. With C. Van Den Blink. First Programming Course in Engineering: Balancing Tradition and Application. Computers in Education Journal , Vol. 13, No. 3 (July-September), 2004, pp. 55-60. With D. I. Schwartz. Introductory Programming Using MATLAB. MATLAB News & Notes , October, 2002. With D. I. Schwartz. The CURIE River Basin: Introduction to Engineering in a Social Context. In Proceedings of the 2001 ASEE Annual Conference , Albuquerque, New Mexico, June, 2001. With K. S. Athreya and R. J. Burt. Stochastic Multiple-Reservoir Optimization Using Regression Dynamic Programming. In Proceedings of 2001 World Water & Environmental Resources Congress , Orlando, Florida, May, 2001. With C. Shoemaker and D. Ruppert. Presentations Faculty and Student Experiences with Online and Blended Learning. Panel discussion in the 2017 Cornell Online Learning Community Event. Ithaca, New York, March 7, 2017. Preparing undergraduate teaching assistants for success. American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) St. Lawrence Section Conference. Ithaca, New York, April 8-9, 2016. Using MATLAB to Teach Computational Science and Programming to Non-Computer-Science Majors. Panel discussion in Mathworks Curriculum Conference. Newton, Massachusetts, June 7-8, 2015. Computational Science and Engineering for New Undergraduates. Presentation in MATLAB Virtual Conference 2013. March 20, 2013. Engaging Introductory Computer Programming Students Using the iRobot Create Simulator. Universidad Industrial de Santander (Technical University of Santander). Bucaramanga, Colombia, July, 2012. Scientific Computation with MATLAB. Workshop in Escuela de Ciencia e Ingeniera de Materiales (School of Materials Sciences & Engineering), Universidad Nacional Autnoma de Mxico (National Autonomous University of Mexico). Mexico City, Mexico, June 25-29, 2012. Preparing Students for Industry via Low-cost Robotics Labs. Panel in American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) Annunal Conference. San Antonio, Texas, June, 2012. A New Paradigm for Inspiring Engineering Students: Transforming Computer Programming to Scientific Computing. XIX Congreso Nacional de Egresados UIS (The XIX National Congress of Technical University of Santander Alumni). Bucaramanga, Colombia, July 2010. Best Practices & Lessons Learned from Faculty Innovation in Teaching Projects. Cornell Center for Teaching Excellence Large Lecture Class Seminar Series. Ithaca, New York, November, 2009. Polling technology for facilitating interactive lectures in science & engineering. American Society for Engineering Education St. Lawrence Section (ASEE) Conference. Ithaca, New York, November, 2006. Biography Dr. Daisy Fan teaches in the areas of programming, scientific computing, and optimization. Her co-authored book, "Insight Through Computing: A MATLAB Introduction to Computational Science and Engineering," is a culmination of years of teaching programming and scientific computing using MATLAB, Java, and Lego MindStorms robotics. Fan's interests include collaborative learning methodologies and technologies in computer science and engineering education, application of systems-analysis techniques for water resources and environmental problems, and development of numerically efficient optimization methods for engineering applications. Problems she has investigated include optimal control of multiple-reservoir operation using stochastic dynamic programming and river basin water quality management. Dr. Fan was selected to attend the National Academy of Engineering Frontiers of Engineering Education Symposium in 2014. She is the recipient of the Kendall S. Carpenter Memorial Advising Award (2016), the Douglas Whitney '61 Excellence in Teaching Award (2011), the Zellman Warhaft Commitment to Diversity Award (2008), and the Cornell Society of Engineers Achievement Award (2004). Fan obtained her Ph.D. in civil and environmental engineering at Cornell University (2002). She was a research scholar at the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA) in Austria (1995). 2019 Cornell University 
