 Skip to main content Search Cornell menu Home Research Bio Courses Presentations Publications News Grants Carla P. Gomes gomes at cs.cornell.edu Professor and Director Institute for Computational Sustainability Home I am a Professor of Computer Science and the director of the Institute for Computational Sustainability at Cornell University. My research area is Artificial Intelligence with a focus on large-scale constraint-based reasoning, optimization, and machine learning . Recently, I have become deeply immersed in the establishment of new field of Computational Sustainability . Computational Sustainability is a new interdisciplinary research field, with the overarching goal of studying and providing solutions to computational problems for balancing environmental, economic, and societal needs for a sustainable future . Such problems are unique in scale, impact, complexity, and richness, often involving combinatorial decisions, in highly dynamic and uncertain environments, offering challenges but also opportunities for the advancement of the state-of-the-art of computer and information science. Work in Computational Sustainability integrates in a unique way various areas within computer science and applied mathematics, such as constraint reasoning, optimization, machine learning, and dynamical systems. Concrete examples of computational sustainability challenges range from planning and optimization for wildlife preservation and biodiversity conservation, to poverty mapping, to combining (deep) data-intensive learning with inference, reasoning, and optimization to accelerate the discovery of new renewable materials such as solar fuels. ICS CompSustNet CompSustNet NEW NSF Expeditions in Computing Award: CompSustNet: Expanding the Horizons of Computational Sustainability (2016) NSF Science News - cool video! NSF Expeditions in Computing Award: Computational Methods for a Sustainable Environment, Economy, and Society (2008) Contact Information Dept. Computer Science 353 Gates Hall Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 USA Faculty of Computing and Information Science Dept. Information Science Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management 607-255-9189 (voice); 607-255-4428 (fax) gomes at cs.cornell.edu http://www.cs.cornell.edu/gomes Cornell University 2016 
