 Haym Hirsh Born on what is now L. Ron Hubbard Way , three mile s from the Hollywood Sign , Haym Hirsh spent the first quarter - century of his life in California , receiving his BS degree in 1983 from the Mathematics and Computer Science department s at UCLA and his MS in 1985 and PhD in 1989 from the Computer Science Department at Stanford University . Unhappy with the weather , he moved to Pittsburgh when he found a way to spend his final year at Stanford at the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon University . The following year he achieved his life - long dream of living in New Jersey by joining the faculty of the Computer Science Department at Rutgers University . As part of his never-ending spiritual quest , he has also spent time as visiting faculty at Carnegie Mellon University (in their School of Computer Science ), MIT (in various combinations of the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory , Laboratory for Computer Science , the Sloan School of Management , and the Center for Collective Intelligence ), and NYU (in the Information Systems Department at the Stern School of Business ). From 2003 to 2006 he served as Chair of the Rutgers University Computer Science Department , and from 2006 to 2010 he served as Director of the Division of Information and Intelligent Systems at the National Science Foundation . By 2012 he pined so greatly for his lost bureaucratic self-actualization that he was consecrated once again as department chair at Rutgers . However , still unsatisfied with the weather and seeking to reach new levels of self - actualization , a year late r he moved to Cornell to serve as Dean of Computing and Information Science . He has since returned to his secular life and is now a Professor in the Departments of Computer Science and Information Science at Cornell . When he is not teaching courses or conducting research , he writes silly biographies with lots of gratuitous pointers to other web pages . (You can also see a more stodgy short bio or a long-winded formal CV .) Research Interests My research has focused on foundations and applications of machine learning, data mining, information retrieval, and artificial intelligence, especially targeting questions that integrally involve both people and computing. Most recently these interests have turned to collective intelligence, crowdsourcing, human computation, and social computing. Teaching Fall 2018: Crowdsourcing and Human Computation Spring 2019: Foundations of Artificial Intelligence 4000 level courses in CS are restricted to CIS students only. All other students will not be able to pre-enroll but will be able to add themselves to the waitlist during add/drop in January. We prioritize students on the waitlist based on various criteria NOT including position on the waitlist (so don't worry about what position it says you're on the waitlist). For more information see the department's enrollment information page . Information for Prospective Students, Postdocs, and Interns Graduate admissions are handled by a central committee that makes decisions for the entire department. Individual faculty do not accept students directly into their research groups. You can find out more at the relevant websites for CS PhD admissions , CS M.Eng. admissions , IS PhD admissions , or IS MS admissions . Master of Engineering in Computer Science at Ithaca I am director of the Cornell Computer Science Master of Engineering at the main (Ithaca) Campus. If you have questions about the program please do not email me directly. Instead please email meng@cs.cornell.edu . You will get a response far more quickly and from whoever can best answer your question(s). Publications Google Scholar Page for Haym Hirsh Popular papers: Y Gil, M Greaves, J Hendler, H Hirsh (2014): Amplify scientific discovery with artificial intelligence. Science 346 (6206), 171-172. Seyda Ertekin, Cynthia Rudin, and Haym Hirsh (2014): Approximating the crowd. A Borgida, TJ Walsh, H Hirsh (2005): Towards Measuring Similarity in Description Logics. Chumki Basu, Haym Hirsh, and WilliamW. Cohen (1998): Recommendation as Classification: Using Social and Content-Based Information in Recommendation. Brian D. Davison and Haym Hirsh (1998): Predicting Sequences of User Actions. Predicting the Future: AI Approaches to Time Series Analysis . Gary M. Weiss and Haym Hirsh (1998): Learning to Predict Rare Events in Event Sequences. Ronen Feldman and Haym Hirsh (1996): Mining Associations in Text in the Presence of Background Knowledge. William W. Cohen, Alex Borgida, and Haym Hirsh (1992): Computing Least Common Subsumers in Description Logics. Haym Hirsh (1992): Polynomial-Time Learning with Version Spaces. Graduated Students (15 PhD Advisees, 50 Descendants) Arunava Banerjee (2001): Dissertation : The Phase-Space Dynamics of Systems of Spiking Neurons . Committee: Doug DeCarlo, Peter Rowat, Eduardo Sontag Current position : Associate Professor, Department of Computer and Information Science and Engineering, University of Florida Students: Nicholas Fisher (PhD 2010: " A Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Space Model of a Spiking Neuron ") Current position: Senior Data Scientist, SAIC Ami Gates (PhD 2008: "State-of-the-Art Protein Secondary-Structure Prediction Using a Novel Two-Stage Alignment and Machine-Learning Method ") Current position: Professor of Mathematics and Statistics and Lead Statistician: Kaplan University Online Karthik S. Gurumoorthy (PhD 2011: " A Schodinger wave mechanics formalism for the eikonal problem and its associated gradient density computation ") Current position: Postdoctoral Fellow, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research Santhosh Kodipaka (PhD 2009: "A Novel Conic Section Classifier with Tractable Geometric Learning Algorithm") Current position: Software Developer, Bing Ritwik Kumar (PhD 2009: " Relighting, Pose Change and Recognition of Faces ") Current position: Data Scientist, Apple Inc. Hailong Meng (PhD 2006: " A novel methodology for identifying conserved regulatory modules at the binding site level ") Current position: Senior Bioinformatics Scientist, Yale University Ajit V. Rajwade (PhD 2010: " Probabilistic Approaches to Image Registration and Denoising ") Current position: Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Bombay Venkatakrishnan Ramaswamy (PhD 2011: "The Transformational Complexity of Acyclic Networks of Neurons") Current position: Postdoctoral Fellow, Haim Sompolinsky, Center for Brain Sciences, Hebrew University. Subhajit Sengupta (PhD 2013: "Two Models Involving Bayesian Nonparametric Techniques") Current position: Postdoctoral Fellow, Department of Health Studies, The University of Chicago, NorthShore University HealthSystem Nathan VanderKraats (PhD 2009: "A novel probabilistic lower bound on mutual information applied to a category-based framework for spike train discrimination") Current position: Postdoctoral Associate, Center for Pharmacogenomics, Washington University School of Medicine Chumki Basu (2002): Dissertation : Recommendation as Classification and Recommendation as Matching: Two Information-Centered Approaches to Recommendation Current position : Program Manager, IBM Research, Bangalore Brian Davison (2002): Dissertation : The Design and Evaluation of Web Prefetching and Caching Techniques Committee: Ricardo Bianchini, Thu Nguyen, Craig Wills Current position : Associate Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Lehigh University, PA Students : Na Dai (PhD 2024: "Mining Web Dynamics for Search") Current position: Research Scientist, Yahoo! Labs Liangjie Hong (PhD 2013: "Mining and Understanding Online Conversational Media") Current position: Head of Data Science, Etsy Inc. Lan Nie (PhD 2008: "Mining the Hyperlinks of the Web Graph") Current position: Software Engineer, Google Xiaoguang Qi (PhD 2012: "Web Page Classification and Hierarchy Adaptation") Current position: Software Development Engineer, Bing Baoning Wu (PhD 2007: "Finding and Fighting Search Engine Spam") Current position: Search Quality Scientist, Snap.com Zaihan Yang (PhD 2014: "Mining and Analyzing the Academic Network") Current position: Visiting Assistant Professor, Boston College Dawei Yin (PhD 2013: "Prediction and Recommendation in Online Media") Current position: Director of Research, JD.com Sergiu Goschin (2014): (with Michael Littman) Dissertation : Stochastic Dilemmas: Foundations and Applications. Current position : Senior Engineer, Google Vipul Kashyap (1997): (with Amit Sheth) Dissertation : Information Brokering over Heterogeneous Digital Data - A Metadata-based Approach . Committee: Alex Borgida, Haym Hirsh, Badri Nath, Amit Sheth Current position : Senior Director - Clinically Integrated Network at NYU Langone Medical Center Daniel Kudenko (1998): Dissertation : Feature Generation for Sequence Categorization. Current position : Lecturer, Department of Computer Science, University of York, U.K. Students : Ali Abusnina (PhD 2014: "Gaussian Process Adaptive Soft Sensors and their Applications in Inferential Control Systems.") Current position: Senior Associate - Advanced Analytics at Cognizant Technology Solutions, Cognizant Heather Barber (PhD 2008: "Generator of Adaptive Dilemma-based Interactive Narratives") Current position: CICS Explorer FV Engineer, IBM - Southampton, UK Sam Devlin (PhD 2014: "Potential-Based Reward Shaping for Knowledge-Based, Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning.") Current position: Research Fellow in Artificial Intelligence and Digital Games, University of York Matthew Grounds (PhD 2007: "Scaling-up Reinforcement Learning using Parallelization and Symbolic Planning") Current position: Senior Coder, Headstrong Games Marek Grzes (PhD 2010: "Improving Exploration in Reinforcement Learning through Domain Knowledge and Parameter Analysis") Current position: Lecturer, Department of Computer Science, University of Kent Rania Hodhod (PhD 2010) Current position: Postdoctoral Research Fellow, Georgia Tech Spiros Kapetanakis (PhD 2004: "Independent Learning of Coordination in Cooperative Single-Stage Games") Current position: Senior Developer, Quant Strategy, Exchange-Traded Products, Jefferies International Limited Zoe Lock (PhD 2005, "Performance and Flexibility of Stereotype-based User Models") Current position: Head of Technology, Technology Strategy Board, UK Kleanthis Malialis (PhD 2014: "Distributed Reinforcement Learning for Network Intrusion Response") Current position: Knowledge Transfer Partnership Research Associate in Massive Analytic, University College London Enda Ridge (PhD 2008: "Design of Experiments for the Tuning of Optimisation Algorithms") Current position: Senior Manager, Data Insight Services, KPMG UK Arturo Servin (PhD 2009: "Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning for Intrusion Detection") Current position: Content Delivery and Peering (Latin America, Caribbean and Iberian Peninsula), Google I-Hsien (Derrick) Ting (PhD 2007: "Closing the KDD loop to Improve Website Design") Current position: Associate Professor, Department of Information Management, National University of Kaohsiung David Loewenstern (1999): (with Peter Yianilos) Dissertation : Sequence Classification Learning using Methods Derived from Entropy Estimation. Current position : Lead Data Scientist, WhitePages David Lubinsky (1993): (with Sholom Weiss) Dissertation : Analysis of Bivariate Splits and Consistent Split Criteria in Dichotomous Classification Trees. Current position : Associate Professor, Department of Mathematics, University of Witwatersrand, South Africa; Founder and Managing Director, OPSI Systems Students : Mohamed Aboulgasem Arteimi (PhD, 2000) Current position: Dean, Arab College of Technology; Head, Computer Engineering Department, 7th of April University; President, Libyan Association for AI Sofus Macskassy (2003): Dissertation : New Techniques in Information Filtering . Committee: Haym Hirsh, Michael Littman, Craig Nevill-Manning, Foster Provost Current position : Data Scientist, Facebook; Project Lead (on leave), USC Information Sciences Institute; Assistant Research Professor, Department of Computer Science, USC Chris Mesterharm (2007): Dissertation : Improving On-Line Learning . Committee: Haym Hirsh, Michael Littman, Robert Schapire, Bill Steiger Current Position : Senior Research Scientist, Applied Communication Science (formerly named Telcordia) Steve Norton (1995): Dissertation : Classifier Induction from Imperfect Data as Reasoning Under Uncertainty. Currenet position : Vice President, Investment Technology Group, Inc. Lorien Pratt (1993): (with Jack Mostow) Dissertation : Transferring Previously Learned Back-Propagation Neural Networks to New Learning Tasks . Committee: Steve Hanson, Haym Hirsh, Casimir Kulikowski, Jack Mostow, Michiel Noordewier Current position : CTO, Quatellia Khaled Rasheed (1998): (with Andrew Gelsey) Dissertation : GADO: A Genetic Algorithm for Continuous Design Optimization. Committee: Andrew Gelsey, Haym Hirsh, Doyle Knight, Don Smith Current position : Professor, Department of Computer Science, University of Georgia Students : Boseon Byeon (PhD 2009: "Enhancing the Quality of High Dimensional Noisy Data for Classification and Regression Problems") Tomasz Oliwa (PhD 2013: "Learning, Exploiting and Benchmarking Problem Structures in Real-Valued Evolutionary Optimization") Current position: Postdoctoral Associate, Toyota Technological Institute Bo Qian (PhD 2006: "Intelligent Financial Market Prediction") Current position: Associate Director/Senior Develolper, Royal Bank of Canada Capital Markets Liang Shi (PhD 2008: "Adaptive Surrogate-Assisted Evolution") Current position: Software Development Engineer, Microsoft Corporation Man Chon U (PhD 2008: "Improving learning outcomes by using clustering validity analysis to reduce label uncertainty") Current position: Global Director, Data Science, Las Vegas Sands Corp. Gary Weiss (2003): (with Foster Provost) Dissertation : The Effect of Small Disjuncts and Class Distribution on Decision Tree Learning . Committee: Haym Hirsh, Casimir Kulikowski, Foster Provost, Lou Steinberg Current position : Associate Professor, Department of Computer and Information Sciences, Fordham University Sarah Zelikovitz (2002): Dissertation : Using Background Knowledge to Improve Text Classification . Committee: Haym Hirsh, Tom Mitchell, Craig Nevill-Manning, Lou Steinberg Current position : Associate Professor, Department of Computer Science, College of Staten Island Academic Genealogy My advisor: Bruce Buchanan (b. July 7, 1940, St. Louis) (Ph.D. Philosophy, Michigan State University, 1966: "Logics of Scientific Discovery") Buchanan's advisor: Gerald Massey (b. Feb 11, 1934, Wauseon, Ohio) (Ph.D. Philosophy, Princeton University, 1964: "The Philosophy of Space ") Massey's advisor: Carl Gustav Hempel (b. Jan. 8, 1905, Oranienburg, Germany; d. 1997, Princeton, NJ) (Philosophy, Berlin, 1934: "Beitrage zur logischen analyse des wahrscheinlichkeitsbegriffs") (Hempel worked with Reichenbach until Reichenbach was forced to leave Germany in 1933; his final year at Erlangen was spent under the supervision of Wolfgang Kohler and Nicolai Hartmann. Hempel also studied mathematics with David Hilbert, logic with John von Neumann, and Physics with Max Planck.) Hempel's advisor: Hans Reichenbach (b. Sept. 26, 1891, Hamburg, Germany; d. April 9, 1953, Los Angeles, CA) (Philosophy, Erlangen, 1915: "Der Begriff der Wahrscheinlichkeit fur die mathematische Darstellung der Wirklichkeit") Reichenbach's two advisors: Paul Hensel (Dr. phil., Albert-Ludwigs-Universitat Freiburg, 1885: "Uber die Beziehung des reinen Ich bei Fichte zur Einheit der Apperception bei Kant") Please email me if you know anything about him New!!! Footnote 61 on page 57 of the book "Die deutsche Universitdtsphilosophie in der Weimarer Republik und im Dritten Reich" by Christian Tilitzki, 2001, says that Hensel's advisor was Alois Riehl. I know little about Riehl other than he gave Ludwig Mies van der Rohe his first building job, the Riehl House . Please let me know if you are aware of Riehl's academic ancestors. Max Noether (b. September 24, 1844, Mannheim, Baden, Germany; d. December 13, 1921, Erlangen, Germany) (Dr. phil. Ruprecht-Karls-Universitat Heidelberg, 1868) Based on information I received from Hans Reichenbach's widow, I had previously listed the second advisor as Emmy Noether. I subsequently learned that this did not match up with Reichenbach's dissertation's signature page, which has Max Noether's signature. This is consistent with Emmy Noether being Reichenbach's advisor but not having the standing to be acknowledged formally as advisor because she was female, but I have not been able to find evidence of this as yet. If it was indeed Emmy Noether, instead of Max Noether's two advisors we would next be at Paul Gordan, and then to the same "grand-advisor" as Max Noether, Carl Gustav Jacob Jacobi. Noether's two advisors: Ludwig Otto Hesse (b. April 22, 1811, Kvnigsberg, Germany (now Kaliningrad, Russia); d. August 4, 1874, Munich, Germany) (Dr. phil. Universitat Kvnigsberg 1840: "De octo punctis intersectionis trium superficium secundi ordinis") Gustav Robert Kirchhoff (b. March 12, 1824, Kvnigsberg, Prussia (now Kaliningrad, Russia); d. October 17, 1887, Berlin, Germany) (Dr. phil. Universitat Konigsberg 1847: "De criteriis quibus cognoscatur an aequatio quinti gradus irreductibilis algebraice resolvi posset / De parallaxi stellae Argelandriae") Kirchhoff's advisor was also Otto Hesse Hesse's advisor: Carl Gustav Jacob Jacobi (b. December 10, 1804, Potsdam, Prussia; d. February 18, 1851, Berlin, Germany) (Ph.D. Humboldt-Universitat zu Berlin, 1825: "Disquisitiones Analyticae de Fractionibus Simplicibus") Jacobi's advisor: Enno Heeren Dirksen (Ph.D. Georg-August-Universitat Gottingen, 1820: "Historiae progressuum instrumentorum mensurae angulorum accuratiori interserventium inde a Tob. Meyeri temporibus ad umbratione non de artificio multiplicationis") His two advisors: Friedrich Anton Justus Thibaut (b. January 4, 1772, Hameln, Hanover; d. March 28, 1840, Heidelberg) (Dr. phil. Christian-Albrechts-Universitat zu Kiel, 1796: "De genuina iuris personarum et rerum indole, veroque huius divisionis pretio") Thibaut's advisors were Abraham Gotthelf Kaestner (listed below) and Georg Christoph Lichtenberg, whose advisor was also Kaestner. Johann Tobias Meyer d.J. (b. February 17, 1723, Marbach, Wurttemberg, Germany; d. February 20, 1762, Gottingen, Germany) (Ph.D. Georg-August-Universitat Gottingen, 1773: "Tetragonometriae specimen I") Meyer's advisor: Abraham Gotthelf Kaestner (b. Sept 27, 1719, Leipzig, Germany; d. June 20, 1800, in Gottingen, Germany) (Ph.D. Universitat Leipzig, 1739: "Theoria radicum in aequationibus") Kaestner's advisor: Christian A. Hausen (b. 1693, d. 1743) (Dr. phil. Martin-Luther-Universitat Halle-Wittenberg 1713: "De corpore scissuris figurisque non cruetando ductu") To go further back you should continue with Hausen's entry at the Mathematics Genealogy Project , which goes back to Copernicus and into the 1300s. Other Personal Links The Wit and Wisdom of Haym Hirsh. (Yes, it's intentional.) The wisdom of Dilbert: Cloud computing The Singularity Data privacy Amazon's CAPTCHA's commentary on the Mechanical Turk usage agreement Jay played "Little Hex" in Nate the Great at the Circle Players. 1984: The oldest presence I could find of myself on the Internet . (Since it's not clear from the link, it is from the (Rubik's) Cube Lover's email list.) 1994: The oldest Web page I could find that I had authored . Erds number : 3 ( Paul Erds to Frank Hsu to Gary Weiss to Haym Hirsh ) Bacon number : 2: It's a bit of a stretch: My childhood home appeared (in the distance) in an episode of Chips, and I was in the house at the time it was filmed. Erik Estrada was in Chips, and he was in "We Married Margo" with Kevin Bacon. 4: Also a stretch, but no houses are involved: I was on a panel at MIT with David Ferrucci (IBM), which you can find on YouTube. He was on Jeopardy! with Alex Trebek. Trebek was in the Charlie's Angels movie with Sam Rockwell. Rockwell was in Frost/Nixon with Kevin Bacon. No animals were harmed in the creation of this web page. This Web site was brought to you by the letter H. Last update: 2 October 2018 
