 Skip to Main Content Academics Programs of Study Masters Programs Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Master of Engineering in Computer Science Master in Electrical and Computer Engineering Master in Operations Research and Information Engineering Master of Laws (LLM) in Law, Technology, and Entrepreneurship Technion-Cornell Dual Master's Degrees in Connective Media Technion-Cornell Dual Master's Degrees in Health Tech PHD & Post Doctoral Programs PhD Studies Runway Startup Postdocs Studio Studio is comprised of intensely immersive, interdisciplinary team experiences that provide all of our Masters students with hands on, real world skills that challenge and expand their roles in their chosen fields. Studio Curriculum Studio Practice Real World Outcomes Admissions Admissions Events Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Application Master of Engineering Application Master of Laws (LLM) Application Technion-Cornell Dual Degree Application Tuition & Fees Impact Alumni K-12 Initiative Community Runway Startups Women in Technology and Entrepreneurship in New York Research Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) & Social Computing Security & Privacy Artificial Intelligence and Robotics Data & Modeling Law and Policy People Faculty Practitioners & Researchers PhD Students Leadership Board of Overseers Campus Emma and Georgina Bloomberg Center Tata Innovation Center The House at Cornell Tech Jacobs Institute The Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute is a place for dynamic experimentation, where the boundaries of academia are expanded. Learn More Visit Search for: Academics Programs of Study Masters Programs Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Master of Engineering in Computer Science Master in Electrical and Computer Engineering Master in Operations Research and Information Engineering Master of Laws (LLM) in Law, Technology, and Entrepreneurship Technion-Cornell Dual Master's Degrees in Connective Media Technion-Cornell Dual Master's Degrees in Health Tech PHD & Post Doctoral Programs PhD Studies Runway Startup Postdocs Studio Studio is comprised of intensely immersive, interdisciplinary team experiences that provide all of our Masters students with hands on, real world skills that challenge and expand their roles in their chosen fields. Studio Curriculum Studio Practice Real World Outcomes Admissions Admissions Events Johnson Cornell Tech MBA Application Master of Engineering Application Master of Laws (LLM) Application Technion-Cornell Dual Degree Application Tuition & Fees Impact Alumni K-12 Initiative Community Runway Startups Women in Technology and Entrepreneurship in New York Research Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) & Social Computing Security & Privacy Artificial Intelligence and Robotics Data & Modeling Law and Policy People Faculty Practitioners & Researchers PhD Students Leadership Board of Overseers Campus Emma and Georgina Bloomberg Center Tata Innovation Center The House at Cornell Tech Jacobs Institute The Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute is a place for dynamic experimentation, where the boundaries of academia are expanded. Learn More CONNECT WITH US 2 West Loop Road, New York, NY 10044 People / Board of Overseers Daniel P. Huttenlocher Jack and Rilla Neafsey Dean and Vice Provost, Cornell Tech Daniel Huttenlocher is the Jack and Rilla Neafsey Dean and Vice Provost of Cornell Tech and in the Computer Science Department and the Johnson School at Cornell University. As Dean, he has overall responsibility for the new campus, including the academic quality and direction of the campus degree programs and research. Working with both internal and external stakeholders, he is developing approaches for working with companies, nonprofits, government agencies and early stage investors, as well as overseeing the faculty recruitment and entrepreneurial initiatives of the campus. Huttenlocher has a mix of academic and industry background, having worked at the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center (PARC) and served as CTO of Intelligent Markets, as well as being a faculty member at Cornell for over two decades. He received his bachelors degree from the University of Michigan and both his Masters and Doctorate degree from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).He currently serves as a Director of Amazon, Inc., Corning, Inc. and the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation. < Back to People SHARE THIS ON: GET IN TOUCH: techdean@cornell.edu About About News Career Management Jobs Discover Contact The Caf Give Built at Cornell Tech Resources Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Accessibility Safety & Security Connect with us Email Address Subscribe This iframe contains the logic required to handle Ajax powered Gravity Forms. 2 West Loop Road, New York, NY 10044 2018 Cornell Tech. All right reserved. 
