 Ari Juels Menu Skip to content AJ CV Publications / Patents Teaching CS 5435 (Fall 2018) Past courses CS 5094 (Spring 2017) CS 5094 (Spring 2018) CS 5433 (Spring 2018) CS 5435 (Fall 2014) CS 5435 (Fall 2015) CS 5435 (Fall 2016) CS 5435 (Fall 2017) CS 5438 (Spring 2016) CS 6431 (Fall 2015) CS 7430 (Spring 2015) Tetraktys Bilberry Bilberry Bilberry in London Tomaso, The Ill-Striped Tiger Press Whats the banner about? Contact Search for: AJ Ari Juels Professor, Computer Science Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute Cornell Tech 2 West Loop Road New York, NY 10044 e-mail: Bio Ari Juels is aProfessor at Cornell Tech ( Jacobs Technion-Cornell Institute ) in New York City, and Computer Science faculty member at Cornell University .He is a Co-Director of the Initiative for CryptoCurrencies and Contracts (IC3) . He was the Chief Scientist of RSA, Director of RSA Lab oratories, and a Distinguished Engineer at EMC (now Dell EMC), where he worked until 2013. He receivedhis Ph.D. in computer science from U.C. Berkeley in 1996. His recent areas of interest include blockchains, cryptocurrency, and smart contracts, as well as applied cryptography, cloud security, user authentication, and privacy. Research My interestsbroadly span security,privacy, and cryptography. A fewof the research areas my group isnow exploring are: Blockchains, cryptocurrency, and smart contracts: Todays cryptocurrencies represent just one point in a large design space of financial instruments. How mightwe make blockchain systemsmore flexible and relevant to banks, governments, and ordinary users? Cloud security: How cancloud providers best provide security for their tenants? How can tenants best protect themselves from threats in the cloud? Honey objects: As part of a general counterintelligence strategy to defend systems with eroding security perimeters, how can we deceive adversaries with fake resources? Group members Students Im currently working with: Ethan Cecchetti (PhD candidate, co-advised with Andrew Myers) Phil Daian (PhD candidate) Yan Ji (PhD candidate) Deepak Maram (PhD candidate) Fan Zhang (PhD candidate) Postdocs: Steven Goldfeder (IC3 Postdoc, co-mentored with Andrew Miller) Ian Miers (Postdoc, co-mentored with Tom Ristenpart) Research Engineer: Tyler Kell (also working with Tom Ristenpart) Visiting Scientist: Iddo Bentov Runway Mentee Sam Scott (co-mentored with Tom Ristenpart) Prospective Ph.D. students I am happy to talk with prospective Ph.D. students. In general, Cornell / Cornell Tech isan exceptional place to do research in security, privacy, andcrypto, as shown by our roster of faculty in the area and various statistics, such as Cornells #1 ranking incomputer security here (although this is just one metric and not a good way to measure overall quality). Note that Cornells computer science program spans the Ithaca and NYC campuses; studentsreside in whichever location their advisor does. In order to work with me or any other faculty member in the Cornell CSas a Ph.D. student, however, you must first be accepted bythe Cornell CS program . Individual faculty members cannot admit students, andCornell CS encourages students to explore working with different potential advisors. If you believe you may wish work with me, please list me as a contact in your application to the Ph.D. program. Ari Juels Photo Credit: Tobias Scholl Search for: Proudly powered by WordPress 
