 Keinan Lab Top Bar Home Research News People Publications All Publications Recent & Selected Publications Google Scholar Alon Keinan's NCBI MyBibliography (pubmed) Tools & Data Academic In the Media Funding Jobs Blog Contact Latest News Kaixiong joins the Human Genetics department at UGA! Congrats recents grads! Announcing XWAS version 3.0! Invited Perspective published in Science magazine Welcome new postdoc, Alexandre Lussier The Cornell Chronicle recognizes Dr. Keinan for tackling the gender gap in medicine X Chromosome research receives media attention from Nature Medicine Recruiting Postdocs, Students, and a Programmer Our recent publication in Nature Ecology and Evolution calls for Personalized Nutrition Didn't yet analyze ChrX in your GWAS? We released XWAS version 2.0! more ... Home The Keinan Lab The Keinan lab aims to improve the search for complex disease genes and genes underlying other complex traits, with the key driving hypothesis being that characterizing human population genomics can inform the design and analysis of medical genetic studies. This hypothesis received fresh support from the lab's work on the effect that recent human explosive population growth has had on the accumulation of rare genetic variants and the extensive implications of that discovery for gene-disease association studies (Keinan & Clark, Science 2012). Hence, the lab studies how demographic history and natural selection have shaped patterns of human genetic variation, and translates that knowledge to the study of the genetic basis of complex human diseases. Members of the lab come from varied backgrounds, including in computer science, statistics, genetics, genomics, physics, anthropology, and biology, which enables the collaborative development of computational and statistical methods, their efficient application to large-scale, genomic data sets, and the interpretation of discoveries in light of gene function and anthropological evidence. "...cause if we cease to ask, we will cease to grow if we don't go far, we will soon fall." ( Mookie D., translated from Hebrew) 
