 Skip to main content SEARCH: This Site Cornell more options Search This Site menu Welcome About the President Communications Priorities Initiatives News The Presidency Toggle the sub-menu Presidential Archives Toggle the sub-menu Elizabeth Garrett David Skorton Jeffrey S. Lehman Hunter R. Rawlings III Inaugurations Symbols Contact Office of the President Welcome About the President Communications Priorities Initiatives News The Presidency Toggle the sub-menu Presidential Archives Toggle the sub-menu Elizabeth Garrett David Skorton Jeffrey S. Lehman Hunter R. Rawlings III Inaugurations Symbols Contact Martha E. Pollack I am honored to lead Cornell University, which, as a private university with a public mission, embodies my own deeply held belief in the ability of higher education to improve the human condition. Cornell has an abiding commitment to the liberal arts, to the development and curation of pure knowledge, and to the application of that knowledge to make a lasting, positive difference in the world. From its founding, Cornell has also recognized that people with diverse backgrounds and experiences bring great value to education, discovery, creativity, and engagement, and that freedom of speech and mutual respect are essential to civil and productive discourse. I am proud to uphold these values and commitments. Based in a beautiful college town in the Finger Lakes region, Cornell also has a major presence in New York City and is rapidly expanding the collaborations and synergies among its upstate and downstate campuses, as it builds on its global impact. I am delighted to be a part of Cornell at this exciting moment in its history, and to work with our faculty, students, staff, and alumni in Ithaca, New York City, and around the world. Latest Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Table updated as progress continues Dr. Kings Dream Today Cornell Daily Sun, January 20, 2019 2018 Winter Commencement Address December 15, 2018 2018 State of the University Address November 2, 2018 Statement on Recent National Events October 29, 2018 @cornellpresident President @CornellUniversity, computer scientist, linguist, and university administrator, serving higher education with a public purpose. #cornell Follow on Instagram 2019 Cornell University If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance. Hosted by CampusPress 
