 Skip to main content Cornell University Computer Science Tim Teitelbaum Professor Emeritus Cornell University Computer Science Department Cornell University CEO GrammaTech, Inc. www.grammatech.com View my CV . Education: Carnegie-Mellon University 1975 | Ph.D., Computer Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology 1964 | B.S., Mathematics Positions: 2010-present - Professor Emeritus, Department of Computer Science, Cornell University 1988-present - Chairman and CEO, GrammaTech, Inc., Ithaca, NY 1973-2010 - Faculty, Department of Computer Science, Cornell University 1982-83 - Visiting Researcher, Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique (INRIA), Rocquencourt, France Tim Teitelbaum's research is focused on automatic program analysis with the ultimate goal of solving the important cyber-security concerns of the modern world. Making the cyber-world a safer place includes uncovering bugs and vulnerabilites in software that can be exploited by attackers around the globe. To protect software from attacks optimally, we must analyze both source code and machine code during software development. Analzying source code is critical for developers to understand the vulnerabilities that may exist in the code they are writing. Analyzing machine code allows organizations to scan components of code, such as libraries or full applications, using stripped executables. By analyzing the code as it will be executed in the final application, we are able to achieve deeper insight than would be attainable from analysis of source code alone. Dr. Teitelbaum retired from Cornell in June 2011 to devote his time to GrammaTech, Inc. , where he is the CEO. He continues to pursue both his research interests and the transition of research to commercial products. Honors and Awards: 2010 ACM SIGSOFT Retrospective Impact Paper Award for the 1984 paper, "The Synthesizer Generator" co-authored with Dr. Thomas Reps 2003 Recognized as a Highly Cited Researcher in the field of Computer Science by the Institute for Scientific Information. 1996 Dean's Award for Outstanding Teaching 1996 College of Engineering Teaching Award 1986 Dean's Prize for Innovation in Undergraduate Teaching 2013 Cornell University 
