 Kilian Q. Weinberger Associate Professor of Computer Science Welcome Research Publications Students Teaching Code download Welcome Research Publications Students Teaching Code download NEW: I am a member of the newly established Cornell Center of Data Science for Improved Decision-Making. My CS4780 Machine Learning for Intelligent Systems class is now online . Bio: Kilian Weinberger is an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science at Cornell University. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania in Machine Learning under the supervision of Lawrence Saul and his undergraduate degree in Mathematics and Computing from the University of Oxford. During his career he has won several best paper awards at ICML (2004), CVPR (2004, 2017), AISTATS (2005) and KDD (2014, runner-up award). In 2011 he was awarded the Outstanding AAAI Senior Program Chair Award and in 2012 he received an NSF CAREER award. He was elected co-Program Chair for ICML 2016 and for AAAI 2018. In 2016 he was the recipient of the Daniel M Lazar '29 Excellence in Teaching Award. Kilian Weinberger ' s research focuses on Machine Learning and its applications. In particular, he focuses on learning under resource constraints, metric learning, Gaussian Processes, computer vision and deep learning. Before joining Cornell University, he was an Associate Professor at Washington University in St. Louis and before that he worked as a research scientist at Yahoo! Research in Santa Clara. ( C.V. .) If you are a Cornell student and want to get in contact with me, please just show up to my office hours (see link on the left side bar). Please do not email me unless absolutely necessary. Kilian is an active member of the Cornell Machine Learning Group. He is married to (the amazing) Anne Bracy . Together they have three children, Timo , Koby and Nika . Interested in joining my lab as Ph.D. student? Please take a look at this page . About Me Kilian Q. Weinberger Associate Professor Gates Hall, Room 410 Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-7501 Office Hours: https://kilianofficehours.youcanbook.me/ email: kqw4 () cornell.edu Tel: (607) 255 4845 2017 Kilian Weinberger Contact Me 
