 Stephen B. Wicker Professor School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Cornell University About Research CV Publications Students Media Contact Stephen B. Wicker is a Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Cornell University, and a member of the graduate fields of Computer Science, Information Science, and Applied Mathematics. He teaches and conducts research in wireless information networks, cellular networks, packet-switched computer networks, and digital telephony. He currently focuses on the interface between information networking technology, law, and sociology, with a particular emphasis on how design choices and regulation can infringe the privacy and speech rights of users. Professor Wicker's most recent book, Cellular Convergence and the Death of Privacy , was published by Oxford University Press in September 2013. Professor Wicker is also the author of Codes, Graphs, and Iterative Decoding (Kluwer, 2002), Turbo Coding (Kluwer, 1999), Error Control Systems for Digital Communication and Storage (Prentice Hall, 1995) and Reed-Solomon Codes and Their Applications (IEEE Press, 1994). He has served as Associate Editor for Coding Theory and Techniques for the IEEE Transactions on Communications , and as Associate Editor for the ACM Transactions on Sensor Networks . He has served two terms as a member of the Board of Governors of the IEEE Information Theory Society. Professor Wicker was awarded the Cornell College of Engineering Teaching Award in 1998, 2009, and 2012. He was also awarded the 2000 Cornell School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Teaching Award. He has supervised 41 doctoral dissertations. Professor Wicker is the Cornell Principal Investigator for the TRUST Science and Technology Center - a National Science Foundation center dedicated to the development of technologies for securing the nation's critical infrastructure. In 2011 he was made a Fellow of the IEEE for "contributions to wireless information systems." Stephen Wicker 2013 
