 Cheng Zhang| Assistant Professor in Cornell University Recent Posts WristWash: Towards Automatic Handwashing Assessment Using a Wrist-worn Device August 24, 2018 FingerPing: Recognizing fine-grained hand poses using active acoustic on-body sensing December 13, 2017 FingerSound: Recognizing unistroke thumb gestures using a ring July 20, 2017 FingOrbits: Interaction with Wearables Using Synchronized Thumb Movements July 20, 2017 CrowdStory: Fine-Grained Event Storyline Generation by Fusion of Multi-Modal Crowdsourced Data July 20, 2017 Skip to content Home Media Coverage Research Curriculum Vitae Contact Me About Cheng Zhang My office hours is Tuesday/Wed 4:00 -5 :00PM, at 244 Gates Hall , Or by appointment. I am looking for students (both undergrad and graduate) who are interested in Ubicomp research (building sensing systems that address real-world challenges), with a strongbackground in electrical engineering or computer science to join my research group in the fall. Feel free to drop me an email if you are interested. C heng Zhang is an Assistant Professor in Computing and Information Science at Cornell University. He received his Ph.D. in computer science at Ubicomp Lab at the Georgia Institute of Technology , where he was advised by Dr. Gregory Abowd (CS) and Dr.Omer Inan(ECE) . His research interests are ubiquitous computing and human-computer interaction(HCI). More specifically, hisresearch examines how to solicit information on and around the human body to address real-world challenges in various application areas, such as interaction, health sensing, and activity recognition . His Ph.D. thesis presents over 10 different novel input techniques for wearables, some leveraging commodity devices while others incorporate new hardware. He usually builds sensing systems from the bottom to the top , including understanding the physical phenomenon, building hardware prototypes, designing form factors, processing data, and designing algorithms (machine learning orphysics-based modeling) . His work has resulted in over a dozen publications in top-tier conferences and journals in the field of Human-Computer Interaction and Ubiquitous Computing (including two best paper awards ), as well as over 8 pending U.S. and international patents . His work also has attracted the attention of various media outlets, including ScienceDaily, DigitalTrends, ZDNet, New Scientist, RT, TechRadar, Phys.org, Yahoo News, Business Insider, and MSN News. He is alsoan alumnus of The Technological Innovation: Generating Economic Results (TI:GER) program, which is a joint program held between the Business School at Georgia Tech and the Law School at Emory University. This program taught him how to commercialize new technology and present innovative products to the market.The work that leverages commodity devices has resulted in significant commercial impact, including the adoption of tap input on commodity smartphones by Atlanta startup AgVoice , and licensing by Canadian startup ProximityHCI to improve the smartwatch interaction experience. Before coming to Georgia Tech, he received his bachelors degree in software engineering from Nankai University and his masters degree from the Institute of Software at the Chinese Academy of Sciences as an outstanding graduate, where he started hiscuriosityon HCI and acquired his first-hand research experience across tangible user interface, HCI for children, music interface. He is an enthusiasticsports fan and enjoys running in spare time. His first half-marathon was completed within two hours on Nov. 26, 2015 in Atlanta Thanksgiving Half Marathon. Comments are closed Latest News 10/25/18 Ph.D. thesis is nominated by Georgia Tech for ACM Dissertation Award. 04/19/18 Received outstanding graduate research assistant award from the College of Computing at Georgia Tech for the year of 2017-18. 03/12/18 Successfully defended my Ph.D. thesis. 03/09/18 Accepted to be a session chair at CHI18. 01/23/18 Interviewed by The American Society of MechanicalEngineers (ASME) for ring-based input tech. 12/25/17 FingerPing (FingerSonar) was accepted to CHI18 . 10/06/17 Talk @Google Novel gestures for wearables. 09/10/17 Four Papers and three talks at Ubicomp/ISWC17 . 05/10/17 @CHI17 . 03/20/17 Program Committee for workshop on object recognition for input and mobile interaction on MobileHCI17. 01/19/17 Serve as one of the student volunteer chairs on Ubicomp17. Cheng Zhang @ CopyRights Powered by Parabola & WordPress. 
