Dr. Carole Angolano: Part-time Faculty / Class of 2011 - Glenn R. Jones College of Business E-mail: carole.angolano@trident.edu Areas of Expertise : Cyber threat analysis/mgt, digital forensics, advanced persistent threat analysis... Education History Doctoral degree - Trident University (2011) Masters degree - City University (1999) Bachelors degree - Bryant University (1991) DownloadBachelor of Science in Computer Science Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Management Master of Science in Information Technology Management Ph.D. in Business Administration ACM SIGMIS in 2008 ACM SIGMIS in 2012 Cyber Security and Global Information Assurance (2009) (Co-author) ACM SIGMIS in 2008 Status: Retired, U.S. Army Branch: U.S. Army Rank: Chief Warrant Officer 5 Years: 38 Accolades: Legion of Merit, Meritorious Service Medal, Rhode Island Star"I received my PhD at Trident University in 2011. It was an experience that I will forever cherish. It was challenging and exciting. I understand the difficulties and challenges that online students face in completing their courses and degrees. It is my goal to deliver a high quality, online education so that students can achieve their goals and receive the education they pursue."Highest Military Awards: Legion of Merit Meritorious Service Medal Rhode Island Star National Guard Bureau Minuteman Award ACM: Association of Computing Machinery AAUW: American Association of University Woman CSI: Computer Security Institute IEEE: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IWLA: International Womens Leadership Association NAPW: National Association of Professional Women USAWOA: U.S. Army Warrant Officers Association MOAA: Military Officer's Association of America Dr. Angolano's areas of expertise include (a) cyber threat analysis, (b) cyber threat management, (c) advanced persistent threat analysis, (d) information technology security, (e) information technology management, (f) systems development and design, (g) information assurance, (h) and digital forensics. Dr. Angolano worked for the Department of Defense for over 32 years and specialized in communications security, classified and non-classified network management, and all areas of information technology security and assurance. She served as the technical expert in her assigned information mission area, which involved managing multiple networks, designing network topology for state-of-the-art infrastructures, performing in-depth analysis of existing information technology systems, and provided remote access capabilities to the installations wide area networks (WAN). She was responsible for the Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP) of the multiple networks, including classified and non-classified LANs and WANs. She was also responsible for the Information Assurance Vulnerability Assessment (IAVA) compliancy for the classified and non-classified WANs. An additional duty was to develop training programs and train all personnel in information security and ensure all users completed their yearly training requirements in information assurance. She assisted and supported the U.S. Army, state and city law enforcement, and the FBI Computer Emergency Response Teams (CERT). Dr. Angolano possesses extensive experience and proficiency in information assurance vulnerability assessments (IAVA) and patch/update management; MS Windows OS, MS Office, Adobe, Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) with Lisrel, PASW (formerly SPSS), Lotus forms, and extensive knowledge in PC hardware and software upgrades, rebuilds, and networking. Dr. Angolano has been a professor at Trident University International since 2011 teaching numerous courses related to information technology security at the undergraduate, graduate, and post-graduate level. Dr. Angolano has been a professor at Salve Regina University since 2012 teaching courses in cyber threat analysis, cyber threat management, and advanced persistent threats at the graduate level. She developed the courses for on-line and lecture under the Homeland Security and Administrative Justice division.
