Dr. Lisa M. Henderson: Part-time Faculty - College of Information Systems E-mail: lisa.henderson@trident.edu Areas of Expertise : Systems analysis & design, IT project mgt., application mgt. & support... Education History D.M. - University of Phoenix M.B.A. - Morehead State University B.B.A. - Morehead State University DownloadBachelor of Science in Computer Science Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Management Master of Science in Information Technology ManagementHenderson, L. M. (2013). Enhancing safety communication with leadership: A quantitative study of leadership style and safety voice. Available from ProQuest Dissertations and Theses database. (UMI No. 2573958). "If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them." -- Henry David Thoreau American Society for Quality Kiwanis of East Greenup County, Kentucky Dr. Hendersons areas of expertise include (a) information technology, (b) systems analysis and design, (c) IT project management, (d) application management and support, (e) management of change, (f) management systems and processes, (g) technical writing, (h) Microsoft Office, (i) document control, (j) business process improvement, (k) quality assurance, (l) information systems integration, and (m) Microsoft SQL. Dr. Henderson retired from Marathon Petroleum Company where she was an IT integrator providing applications and customer support for refining operations organizations. She specialized in areas of document control and team collaboration, environmental and safety applications, yield accounting, and truck loading. Her career in information technology spanned 36 years, with three years in banking and the remainder in the petroleum industry. Her doctoral research focused on a comparison of leadership styles and their correlation with workers behaviors to speak up about safety issues in their workplaces. Dr. Henderson is an active member of the American Society for Quality (ASQ) and serves on the leadership committee for the Scioto Valley Section of ASQ. She is an active member, president elect, and serves on the Board of Directors of East Greenup County Kiwanis, an organization devoted to charitable projects serving communities in northeastern Kentucky.
