 Dinesh Bharadia ( dineshb@ucsd.edu ) I have moved to UCSD as a Assistant Professor. If you are a potential student, researcher or postdoc and interested in working with me, drop me an email . Previously, I worked as postdoctoral associate with NETMIT and NMS groups at MIT CSAIL, advised by Prof. Mohammad Alizadeh . I received my Ph.D. at Stanford University where I worked with Prof. Sachin Katti . From 2013 to 2015, I took a leave of absence from my Ph.D. to commercialize research on the practical full-duplex radio at Kumu Networks , which underwent successful field trials with tier 1 network providers worldwide Deutsche Telekom and SK Telecom and is now being commercially deployed. I research, design and develop systems that advances the theory and design of modern wireless communication systems, sensor networks, and data-center networks. CV available here . List of publication at DBLP and Google Scholar . List of patents provided by Google search and patents provided by justia Selected Awards & Honors Marconi Young Scholar Award : Marconi Society recognizes outstanding young scientists and engineers anywhere in the world. Video by Marconi Society , detailed Press Coverage by Anand Parthasarathy MIT TR35 Award : World's Top 35 Innovators Under the Age of 35. Technology Review describes, His radio could be a godsend for telecom companies and consumers. MIT TR35 Talk , Press release Michael Dukakis Leadership Award : It recognizes outstanding young leaders in CyberSecurity Awarded Sarah and Thomas Kailath Stanford Graduate Fellowship to pursue MS-PhD in the field of Electrical Engineering Awarded Best Student in Electrical Engineering at IIT Kanpur by Prime Minister of India Secured Highest CGPA within Electrical Engineering students and Second highest CGPA across all disciplines at IIT Kanpur, 2010 Selected Press and Media Coverage Marconi Young Scholar Award was covered by numerous news outlets detailed by Anand Parthasarathy , NDTV , Times of India , Stanford News , so on MIT TR35 Award was covered by Press release , CSAIL News , MIT TR35 Talk , India New England , Skill Outlook , so on HitchHike (IoT Connectivity) was covered by Stanford News , ACM TechNews , ECN , Science Blog , Pace Today , North Dallas Gazette , New Electronics , RFID Journal , NFC World , etc. Full-duplex radio was covered by Wall Street Journal , CNBC , MIT Tech. Review , TechCrunch , Fierce Wireless , etc. Wireless Virtual Reality was covered by MIT news , WIRED , Firstpost , TechCrunch , circuit breaker , University Herald , Digital Trends , etc. SpotFi: Indoor Localization was covered by MIT Tech. Review Broader Industry Impact Our research on full-duplex radios has translated into a commercial venture Kumu Networks . I worked as a Principal Scientist at Kumu Networks for nearly two years to commercialize this research and bring it to the rest of the world. At Kumu Networks, I led the technology (both architecture and algorithm design) for in-band full duplex radios to build a commercial product. The product completed successful field trials with major Tier 1 network providers Deutsche Telekom and SK Telecom and is now being commercially deployed. To this date, it is the only successful commercial demonstration of full duplex radios. Due to its proven commercial viability and promise, full duplex is now actively being designed into next-generation wireless standards. Both 5G cellular and next-generation WiFi standards are incorporating full duplex or self-interference cancellation technology in various forms. Selected Publication (Under construction) List of publication at Google Scholar and DBLP . Book Chapter on full duplex radios in Towards 5G book published by Wiley List of patents provided by Google search and patents provided by justia Publications and Patents in PDF form Page generated 2017-01-13 18:15:07 EST, by jemdoc . 
