Assoc Professor , Electrical and Computer Engineering Faculty-Affiliate , Calit2 Neural probe devices for the central nervous system. Nanotechnology for drug screening. Hybrid hetero-integration science and technology for electronics. Dayehs research is interdisciplinary in nature and addresses both fundamental and applied science challenges. With a background in microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) and metal-organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) of III-V (InAs) during his graduate studies and CVD of Ge/Si during his postdoctoral studies, his work advanced the science of growth (epitaxy), hetero-epitaxy, scaling, and the application of band-edge engineered nanowire devices in electron, tunnel, and spin transistors, solar cells, and engineered battery anodes. During his tenure at UC San Diego, his group embarked on developing reliable neural probes for mapping and stimulating cortical and spinal activity across species. A key aspect of his labs work is the complete cycle of electronic material development from synthesis to device design and fabrication, to benchtop characterization, to in vitro and in vivo work, analysis and modeling, to atomic scale microscopy, a set of leading expertise in these domains that is unique to his lab. He continues to push the boundaries of heterointegration of lattice and thermal mismatched materials with a current focus on gallium nitride (GaN) for power, radio frequency and millimeter wave applications, and thin-film transistors for biomedical device applications. Capsule Bio: Shadi Dayeh received his B.S. in Physics/Electronics from the Lebanese University in Beirut, Lebanon in 2001, M.S. in Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University in Dallas in 2003, and PhD in Electrical Engineering from UC San Diego in 2008. He did postdoctoral studies at Los Alamos National Laboratory as Directors Fellow (2008-2010) and Distinguished J. R. Oppenheimer Fellow (2010-2012) and then joined the faculty of ECE at UCSD in November 2012 where he directs the Integrated Electronics and Bio-interfaces Laboratory. He received many best paper awards for his graduate work and distinguished performance award at Los Alamos for his postdoctoral work, the NSF Early Career Award in 2014, the Jacobs School of Engineering Teacher of the Year Award in Electrical and Computer Engineering in 2015, and ISCS Young Scientist Award in 2018. Selected Publications: Google Scholar Publications :
