 Back to Top Skip to main content Mobile Systems Design Lab Menu Main navigation Home Projects People Publications Events Quick Links Contact News Sujit Dey We research and develop technologies that will enable next-generation rich, personalized, and interactive mobile applications. Learn more CWC Research Review PhD student, Po-Han Chiang, explains his research Learn more IEEE Healthcom 2018 Best Paper Award IEEE Healthcom 2018 Best Paper Award Learn more Previous Next Welcome! We research and develop technologies that will enable next-generation rich, personalized, and interactive mobile applications. Our research includes developing new mobile cloud computing architectures and algorithms, media analytics and personalization techniques, adaptive cloud media delivery techniques, application aware green communication techniques that reduce power consumption of both mobile networks and devices, and hardware-software design technologies to ensure reliable, low-power, and variability tolerant systems. Latest Publications P. Chiang, R. Guruprasad and S. Dey, "Optimal Use of Harvested Solar, Hybrid Storage and Base Station Resources for Green Cellular Networks," IEEE Transactions on Green Communications and Networking,vol. 2, no. 3, pp. 707-720, Sept. 2018. PDF P. Chiang and S. Dey, "Personalized Effect of Health Behavior on Blood Pressure: Machine Learning Based Prediction and Recommendation," in Proc. of IEEE International Conference on E-health Networking, Application & Services (Healthcom'18), Ostrava, Czech, Sept. 2018.Received Best Paper Award PDF X. Hou, S. Dey, J. Zhang and M. Budagavi, Predictive View Generation to Enable Mobile 360-degree and VR Experiences, Proceedings of the 2018 Morning Workshop on Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality Network, Budapest, Hungary, August 2018, pp. 20-26. PDF Y. Ku, P. Chiang and S. Dey, Quality of Service Optimization for Vehicular Edge Computing with Solar-Powered Road Side Units, 2018 27th International Conference on Computer Communication and Networks (ICCCN), Hangzhou, China,Jul.2018,pp. 1-10. PDF IEEE Xplore W. Wei, C. McElroy, S. Dey, "Human Action Understanding and Movement Error Identification for the Treatment of Patients with Parkinsons Disease," Proceedings of Sixth IEEE International Conference on Healthcare Informatics, New York City, June 2018, pp. 180-190. PDF News and Events Please check back for new events! Our research includes developing new mobile cloud computing architectures and algorithms, media analytics and personalization techniques, adaptive cloud media delivery techniques, application aware green communication techniques that reduce power consumption of both mobile networks and devices, and hardware-software design technologies to ensure reliable, low-power, and variability tolerant systems. Sponsors Information Footer -Information People Projects Publications Events Links Quick Links Quick Links ECE Jacobs School Center for Wireless Communications CalIt2 UC San Diego Campus Information IEEE Explorer Stay Connected MESDAT labs (Rooms 2518 and 2520) Jacobs Hall, EBU1 Dept of Electrical and Computer Engineering University of California, San Diego 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093 Contact Us! 2019 Regents of the University of California. All Rights Reserved Login 
