 Home Lectures Papers Biosketch Literaryquote Extras Massimo Franceschetti Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering University of California, San Diego 9500 Gilman Drive, Mail Code 0407 La Jolla, CA, 92093-0407 Phone: (858) 822-2284 Fax: (858) 534-2486 massimo@ece.ucsd.edu Faculty assistant: Mr. John Minan jminan@ucsd.edu 858 534-2221 Grant administrator: Ms. Cecilia Palacios cpalacios@eng.ucsd.edu 858 534-2677 My Office is i n 4302 Atkinson Hall on the UCSD campus, at the intersection of Voigt drive and Engineer lane. My field of interest can be broadly described as Mathematical Engineering, with applications to networks, control, computation, communication, and sensing. The objective of is to gain a deeper understanding of the information-theoretic principles at the basis of both natural and engineered systems. Consulting I performed technical consulting on large-scale software development for satellite communication. I also served as expert for the defense in a murder trial, and testified in a conspiracy to commit murder trial, regarding the admissibility and the statistical significance of the evidence collected using a sensor network and signal processing system. My story I graduated from Universita' di Napoli Federico II and got my MS and PhD degrees at Caltech . I was then a post-doc at UC Berkeley for two years, and I have been a frequent visitor of the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam . I settled at UC San Diego in 2004. My Erds Number is 2. I have a google scholar citation profile I teach: ECE45 Circuits and Systems ECE289 Big Network Data ( New data science class on Network Science ) ECE158A Data Networks I ECE257C Stochastic Wireless Networks Models ECE287C Special Topics in Communication Theory and Systems ECE293 Graduate seminar in Communication Theory and Systems My research group: Rohit Parasnis, PhD student (Social dynamical systems) Hamed Omidvar, PhD student (Social dynamical systems) Mohammad Khojasteh, PhD student (Control over communication channels) Vinnu Bhardwaj, PhD student (Biological Networks) Anshuka Rangi, PhD student (Sensing, estimation and control) My Alumni are: Taehyung J. Lim, PhD 2018 Samsung, Seoul, South Korea. Lorenzo Coviello , PhD 2015, thesis on models and theories of social interaction over networks. Post-doc at MIT Media Labs. Google Labs, Pittsburgh, PA. Nikhil Karamchandani , PhD 2011, thesis on computation over networks. Post-doc at UCLA Assistant Professor at IIT-Bombay. Rathinakumar Appuswamy , PhD 2011, thesis on computation over networks. Cognitive computing group at IBM Research, Almaden, San Jose, CA. Ehsan Ardestanizadeh, PhD 2011, thesis on feedback communication. Assia Inc., Broadband Solutions, Redwood city, CA. Wanda Inc., Wireless Digital Health, San Francisco, CA. Google Labs, San Jose, CA. Paolo Minero , PhD 2010, thesis on large scale wireless networks. Assistant Professor at Notre Dame, South Bend, IN. Qualcomm, San Diego, CA. Dalar Vartanians, MS 2016. Tesla Motors autopilot team, San Jose, CA. Dominic Rossi, MS 2015. Intellisis, San Diego, CA. Kaushik Chakraborty, Post-Doc 2008. Qualcomm, San Diego, CA. Anna Martini, Post-Doc 2008. I have written the book Random Networks for Communication together with Ronald Meester . One review appeared in MathSciNet, another one in the Journal of Statistical Physics, and a third one in the Journal of Applied Statistics. I am affiliated with: the Center for Information Theory and Applications (ITA) , the Center for Wireless Communication (CWC), the California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technologies (CalIT2). Like many colleagues, every month I receive several inquiries from perspective students, post-docs, and visitors, who wish to join my research group. It is impossible for me to respond to all of these requests, because of their sheer volume. If you try to contact me in this regard, please do not be offended if I do not reply. The admission process for graduate students is handled by the departmental office for graduate studies. My second book is Wave Theory of Information. It provides a wave-theoretic and physical perspective on information theory and communications. 
