Assoc Professor , Electrical and Computer Engineering Faculty-Affiliate , Bioengineering CMOS integrated circuits for bioelectronics, biosensors, lab-on-a-chip devices, and other biomedical devices and systems. Dr. Halls multi-disciplinary research explores the intersection of electronics, nanotechnology, and biology through the design of high performance CMOS biochips. These mixed-signal biochips address applications such as in-vitro diagnostics, DNA sequencing, proteomics, and neuronal stimulation and detection. This research emphasizes point-of-care (POC) biochips where medical diagnoses, such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), are made in resource limited settings. He is also researching sensor interface circuits, precision analog circuit design techniques, instrumentation, sigma-delta modulators, and novel analog-to-digital converter structures. Capsule Bio: Drew Hall received the B.S. degree in computer engineering with honors from the University of Nevada, Las Vegas in 2005 along with M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from Stanford University in 2008 and 2012, respectively. In the past, he has held internship positions with General Electric, Bentley Nevada Corporation, and National Semiconductor Corporation where he worked on low-power, precision analog circuit design. He worked as a research scientist at the Intel Corporation from 2011 to 2013 in the integrated biosensors laboratory. In 2012 he joined the Jacobs School of Engineering at the University of California, San Diego as an assistant professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. His research interests include bioelectronics, biosensors, analog circuit design, medical electronics, and sensor interfaces. Dr. Hall was the recipient of the 2011 Analog Devices Outstanding Designer Award, won 1 st place in the inaugural international IEEE Change the World Competition, and took 1 st place in the BME-IDEA invention competition. He is also a Tau Beta Pi fellow. Selected Publications: Google Scholar Publications :
