Chancellor , Computer Science and Engineering Faculty , Electrical and Computer Engineering Internet-enabled collaborative design, collaborating autonomous systems, agent-based architectures for distributed design and embedded control, software composition and reconfigurable software for real-time embedded systems, reconfigurable and distributed robotic systems, integrated design-assembly planning systems and distributed information systems Khoslas research interests encompass the areas of Internet-enabled collaborative design, collaborating autonomous systems, agent-based architectures for distributed design and embedded control, software composition and reconfigurable software for real-time embedded systems, reconfigurable and distributed robotic systems, integrated design-assembly planning systems and distributed information systems. His research has resulted in three books and more than 350 journal articles and conference and book contributions. He is also the founding director of the Carnegie Mellon CyLab and the Institute for Complex Engineered Systems, which pursues interdisciplinary projects. Capsule Bio: In addition to his appointment as Chancellor in 2012, Khosla is a distinguished professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at UC San Diego. Before his current appointment, Khosla served as Dean of the College of Engineering and Philip and Marsha Dowd University Professor at Carnegie Mellon University. He began his career at Carnegie Mellon as an Assistant Professor of electrical and computer science engineering in 1986; he was promoted to Associate Professor in 1990 and Professor in 1994. Having been awarded the Philip and Marsha Dowd Professorship in 1998, he was elected University Professor in 2008, the highest distinction a faculty member could achieve. He received his bachelors degree in electrical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology in 1980, and his masters and Ph.D. degrees in electrical and computer engineering in 1984 and 1986 at Carnegie Mellon. Khosla is an elected member of the National Academy of Engineering and the American Society for Engineering Education. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Association for Advancement of Science, the American Association of Artificial Intelligence and the Indian Academy of Engineering. He is an Honorary Fellow of the Indian Academy of Science. His other awards include the 2012 Light of India Award, a Lifetime Achievement Award from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and the W. Wallace McDowell Award from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Computer Society. :
