 Kenneth Kreutz-Delgado Office: 6606 Engineering Building Unit 1 Mailing Address: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering 9500 Gilman Drive, Mail Code 0407 University of California, San Diego La Jolla, CA 92093-0407 Email: kreutz@ece.ucsd.edu Phone: (858) 534-7895 Fax: (858) 534-2486 Ph.D. University of California, San Diego, 1985 Electronic Systems and Systems Controls Before joining the faculty at UC San Diego, he was a researcher at the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, where he worked on the development of intelligent telerobotic systems for use in space exploration and satellite servicing and repair. Dr. Kreutz-Delgado's technical contributions include the development of a spatial operator algebra for the analysis and control of complex, multibody systems; the application of nonlinear dynamical reduction for robust sensory-motor control of multilimbed robotic systems; and the use of differential topology for the development of trainable nonlinear representations for sensory-motor control. Research Interests His interest in sensor-based intelligent systems that can function in unstructured and nonstationary environments is the basis for research activities in the areas of nonlinear dynamics and control; adaptive sensory-motor control; multibody systems theory; learning theory and pattern recognition; computational vision; and data compression. Honors and Distinctions NSF Presidential Young Investigator Award; NASA Telerobotics Group Achievement Award NASA Technology Achievement Award Senior Member of the IEEE Founding Associate Director, UC San Diego Program in Advanced Manufacturing Selected Publications D. Agahi and K. Kreutz Delgado, "Approximate Dynamic Decoupling of Multilimbed Robotic Systems," Proceedings of the 1995 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS 95). D. DeMers and K. Kreutz-Delgado, "Canonical Parameterization of Excess Motor Degrees of Freedom with Self-Organizing Maps," IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, 1995. D. Agahi and K. Kreutz Delgado, "A Star Topology Dynamic Model for Efficient Simulation of Multilimbed Robotic Systems," Proceedings of the 1994 IEEE International Conference on Robotics Automation. Last Updated: 5/3/97 
