Professor , Electrical and Computer Engineering Theoretical and computational electromagnetics, including analytical models for studying electromagnetic phenomena occurring in complex structures, fast and robust numerical methods for calculating electromagnetic fields in complex environments, and applications of these analytical and numerical methods to the analysis and design of electromagnetic devices and systems. Professor Lomakin's interests are in electromagnetic theory and applications ranging from efficient computational techniques for studying electromagnetic fields in the frequency and time domains, to wave phenomena occurring on metal-dielectric surfaces, periodic structures and structures incorporations subwavelength features, to spectral and asymptotic techniques in the frequency and time domains, to antenna analysis and design, and to effective properties of complex media. Lomakin's recent research has focused on wave phenomena associated with scattering of electromagnetic fields from metallic plates perforated by holes of subwavelength size. In addition, he has developed several numerical techniques allowing the fast evaluation of transient electromagnetic fields in free space and layered medium environments, which have potential applications in simulation of integrated circuits and photonic structures. In past, he studied effective properties of complex media and worked on a new class of cell-phone antennas with high efficiency and low body loss. At UCSD, Lomakin supports ongoing efforts in traditional areas such as microwaves and antenna design, analysis and design of multilayered printed circuit boards and optoelectronics. He is also extending his research to include nanophotonics -- given its critical dependence on electromagnetics -- as well as investigating metamaterials, such as left-handed materials. Capsule Bio: Vitaliy Lomakin joined ECE in September 2005. He received his M.Sc. degree from Kharkiv National University (Ukraine) in 1996 and Ph.D. degree from Tel Aviv University (Israel) in 2003, both in Electrical Engineering. While completing his Ph.D. dissertation, he was an instructor in the Department of Electrical Engineering, Tel Aviv University, and worked part-time for Xellant, an Israeli high-tech company. In 2002-2005 he was a Postdoctoral Associate and Visiting Assistant Professor in the Center for Computational Electromagnetics at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. His research interests include analytical and numerical methods for studying electromagnetic fields in complex configurations as well as applications of these methods for the analysis and design of novel devices and systems. He teaches core undergraduate level courses in electrical engineering and electromagnetics, and assists in the development of a graduate sequence in electromagnetics and optics. Selected Publications: Google Scholar Publications :
