 Siavash Mirarab About Courses News Presentations Publications Research Tools/Data Students Assistant Professor ECE Department, University of California, San Diego Affiliated with the CSE department , Bioinformatics , and Center for Microbiome Innovation . 2017 Sloan Research Fellow I obtained my Ph.D. from the Computer Science department at UT-Austin and was advised by Prof. Tandy Warnow and Prof. Keshav Pingali . My Ph.D. research was supported by an NSERC PGS award and Howard Hughes Medical Institute international student fellowship . My dissertation won the honorable mention for the 2015 ACM Doctoral Dissertation Award and I am recipient of the 2017 Sloan Research Fellowship in Computational & Evolutionary Molecular Biology. My research area is computational biology and my lab develops methods that target large-scale datasets. My specific areas of research span many topics, including, reconstruction of species trees from gene trees (phylogenomics), large-scale multiple sequence alignment, HIV transmission network reconstruction, and metagenomic analyses using phylogenetic approaches. Check out our publications page and look at the news for miscellaneous information. Here is my (hopefully up-to-date) CV . Our lab prides itsaelf in many tools developed by the lab. We strive to make these useful for biologists and often hold tutorials and workshops for providing training in the use of the tools. Some of these presentations are available here . Prospective students are generally discouraged from contacting me directly regarding addmissions; those decisions are made by a committee in our department. In rare circumistances, if you have done work that is very closely related to my work, you can write to me and bring that to my attention. Incoming and new students are encouraged to check out this page to learn about the background used in my work ECE students without sufficient programming backgrond may find this page useful. And my calendar: Siavash Mirarab smirarab@ucsd.edu Phone: (858) 822-6245 smirarab smirarab RSS Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering UC San Diego 9500 Gilman Drive, Mail code 0407 EBU 1, Room 6403 La Jolla, CA 92093-0407 
