 micro / nano photonics University of California, San Diego Home Members Research Publications Teaching News Latest News PhD Thesis Award May 21, 2018 PhD student Peter Weigel wins the ECE Department Thesis Award, for his thesis titled "High-Speed Hybrid Silicon-Lithium Niobate Electro-Optic Modulators and Related Technologies". Congratulations, Peter. IBM PhD Fellowship April 3, 2018 PhD student Chaoxuan (Ellen) Ma selected for a 2018 IBM PhD Fellowship Award. Congratulations, Ellen. [URL1] [URL2] CLEO 2017 - PDP May 18, 2017 Post-deadline paper at CLEO 2017 : "Photon Pair Generation Using Silicon Photonic Microring and Hybrid Laser". NASA Graduate fellowship Apr 28, 2017 PhD student Xiaoxi Wang selected for a NASA Space Technology Research Fellowship. Congratulations, Josh. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Previous Next Chip-scale photonics Our research topic is chip-scale photonics. We have made significant contributions to silicon photonics, in the area of micro-resonators, including filters, mixers, and quantum light sources. We are currently working on chipsets for data communication opto-electronics, quantum and space communications, and on a hybrid Si-Lithium Niobate platform for modulators and integrated optics. We collaborate with several industry and government laboratories for design, fabrication, measurement, and data analysis. The PI has taught four different courses in photonics, including a graduate-level course in silicon photonics (ECE 241B). Highlights: Bonded Thin Film Lithium Niobate Modulator on a Silicon Photonics Platform Exceeding 100 GHz 3-dB Electrical Bandwidth [Opt. Express, 2018] . First demonstration of heralded single photons from a silicon nanophotonic chip (APL cover and Editor's Picks of 2012) [APL 2012] . Controllable joint-spectral intensity of photon pairs generated by a silicon chip [Nature Communications 2014] . Verification of entanglement (Franson interferometer) [Opt. Express 2015] . High-performance entangled photon-pair generation using a silicon microring [Opt. Express 2017] , pair generation over 40C range of temperature variation [APL 2015] . CW four-wave mixing in a silicon microring with -13.4 dB efficiency (enough to directly drive a 10 Gbps photoreceiver) using only 2.5 mW pump power [IEEE PTL 2013] . Integration of ring CW mixer with filter [Opt Lett 2014] . High contrast filters using coupled silicon microrings [PTL 2013] . Longest chains of coupled microrings (235 directly-coupled silicon rings) [Opt. Express 2010] . Electronic control of Anderson localized optical modes: [Nature Nanotechnology 2014] . We fabricated silicon waveguides using electron-beam lithography and etching at UC San Diego which were used as a compact source of longer wavelength (2.4 um) infrared light via four-wave mixing in conjunction with fiber-optical seed sources [Nat Photon 2010] . Quantum photonics In 2012, we demonstrated telecommunications-band heralded single photons from a CMOS-compatible silicon nanophotonic chip [APL 2012] . The chip operated at room temperature (uncooled) and is optically pumped with a few milliwatts of pump power at 1550 nm, easily available from laser diodes. In [OpEx 2013] , we described an analytical and computational method for calculating the pair-generation properties of such devices, including the joint spectral intensity (JSI) of the Stokes and anti-Stokes photons. In [Nature Comm 2014] we experimentally demonstrated different JSI's generated by a silicon chip, and in [Opt. Express 2015] , verified that they have different degrees of entanglement as measured by unfolded and folded Franson interferometry. We have shown pair generation from Si microring resonators, including the use of a small amount (microwatts) of pump power [Opt. Express 2016] , and monitoring the microring resonance using an in-built Si p-i-n diode which enables microring pair generation over 40C range of temperature variation [APL 2015] . C. Ma, X. Wang, V. Anant, A. D. Beyer, M. D. Shaw and S. Mookherjea, "Silicon photonic entangled photon-pair and heralded single photon generation with CAR > 12,000 and g(2)(0) < 0.006" Optics Express Vol. 25, No. 26, pp. 32995-33006 (2017). [URL] Nonlinear optics using silicon photonics A new generation of deployable optical signal processing and communications devices can be made if we can demonstrate CMOS-compatible chip-scale devices which can perform ultrafast wavelength conversion of 1-1000 GHz bandwidth signals using as little pump power as possible, e.g., directly from an unamplified laser diode. This research involves optical dispersion engineering, electronic carrier management, and in some cases, thermo-optic tuning. Using reverse-biased silicon microrings, CW four-wave mixing conversion efficiency of -13.4 dB is achieved using 20 um radius micro-ring resonators with only 2.5 mW pump power [IEEE PTL 2013] . Silicon rib waveguides (passive loss of 0.74 dB/cm) with free-carrier lifetime reduction via reverse biased PIN diodes show CW four-wave mixing efficiency of -8.2 dB (-4.4 dB if both signal and idler are measured at the output) with 160 mW pump power (about 2X reduction compared to other reports in literature) [CLEO 2013] . We have improved the wavelength conversion efficiency of slow-light enhanced FWM in silicon Coupled-Resonator Optical Waveguides by 20 dB from our earlier report in [Opt. Lett. 2011] to our recent report in [Opt. Lett. 2014] , showing 10 Gbps NRZ eyes for the first time. Tunable higher-order microring filters were integrated on the same chip as a carrier-swept ring mixer, to separate the generated idler wavelength from the residual pump and unconverted signal [Opt Lett 2014] . Silicon waveguides can be used as a compact source of longer wavelength (2.4 um) infrared light via four-wave mixing in conjunction with fiber-optical seed sources [Nat Photon 2010] . Hybrid Silicon - Lithium Niobate photonics This research focuses on bringing lithium niobate films-on-insulator (LNOI) to the foundry-fabricated silicon-on-insulator (SOI) platform. This is done by fabricating bonded SOI-LNOI integrated devices, mitigating thermal stresses in the bonded stack to allow for standard fabrication procedures, and creating a fully functioning PDK of hybrid Si-LN optical device components for third party users. This technology enables compact diode/transistor-controlled devices in LN, and efficient wavelength converters and electro-optic modulators in Si, both of which are unattainable with each standalone bulk material platform. Work done in collaboration with Sandia National Labs ( A. Lentine, C. DeRose, D. C. Trotter, A. Pomerene, A. Starbuck) and SRICO (S. Sriram, V. E. Stenger); funded by NSF and NDSEG Fellowship. Bonding done at the UCSD Nano3 cleanroom by Peter Weigel, graduate student. Silicon photonics in data centers Using a compact (0.03 mm^2) silicon photonic thermo-optic 1x2 switch, based on cascaded broadband Mach-Zehnder interferometers (designed and fabricated by Sandia), we demonstrated microsecond cross-bar switching of twenty wavelength channels of the [MORDIA] microsecond-scale circuit-switched data-center ring network. Each of the wavelengths carried 10 Gbit/second server-generated data. We used a digital driver for the heater, in which pulse width was controlled, rather than dc amplitude [Optics Express 2014] . In a post-deadline paper at the [2014 IEEE Photonics Conference] , we reported on the design and demonstrate a compact silicon photonic chip (1.30 mm x 0.52 mm) that integrates electrically-tunable 4-channel add, drop and power control functionalities with low power consumption for a research-category WDM data-center network. Work done in collaboration with Sandia National Labs (A. Lentine, C. DeRose, D. C. Trotter, A. Pomerene, A. Starbuck); funded by NSF CIAN and ONR. Micro/Nano-Photonics, UC San Diego. All Rights Reserved. | XHTML | CSS | design by dcarter 
