 Piya Pal Search this site About Me News 2015 and earlier Ph.D Students Ali Koochakzadeh: Publications Heng Qiao: Publications Publications of Pulak Sarangi Publications Research Sitemap About Me I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at University of California, San Diego . I graduated with a Ph.D in Electrical Engineering from Caltech in June, 2013, under the supervision of Prof. P. P. Vaidyanathan . Subsequently, I had a brief post doctoral assignment at Caltech from July-November, 2013. During 2014-June 2016, I was an Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Maryland, College Park, where I was also affiliated with the Institute for Systems Research (ISR). I was born and brought up in the city of Calcutta (currently known as Kolkata) in West Bengal, India. I graduated from Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur in 2007, with a B. Tech in Electronics and Electrical Communication Engineering. In September 2007, I joined the PhD program in the Electrical Engineering department at Caltech, funded by an Atwood Fellowship and graduated in June, 2013. I spent the summer of 2012 (June-October) at Microsoft Research, Redmond , as an intern working with Dr. Henrique Malvar . Research Overview My primary research interests are high dimensional statistical signal processing and big data analysis, energy-efficient sensing, high resolution imaging, and optimization techniques for solving inverse problems in signal processing with applications in radar and sonar signal processing, biomedical and molecular imaging, and machine learning. More specifically, I focus on developing new energy-efficient sampling and sensing techniques for acquiring and processing high dimensional signals, and understanding their fundamental performance limits. My doctoral thesis titled New directions in sparse sampling and estimation for underdetermined systems was awarded the 2014 Charles and Ellen Wilts Prize for Outstanding Thesis in Electrical Engineering at Caltech. My research is supported by grants from NSF and ONR. Openings: I am looking for graduate students with background in signal processing, communication, statistics and machine learning. If you obtained your undergraduate or Masters degree in Electrical Engineering, Computer Science, Statistics, or Applied Math and if my research sounds interesting to you, please email me, stating your research interests along with a copy of your CV at pipal@eng.ucsd.edu . Sign in | Recent Site Activity | Report Abuse | Print Page | Powered By Google Sites 
