 Toggle navigation Home About Mission & Vision Leadership Rankings History Map & Directions Careers Contacts Departments Bioengineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Computer Engineering Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering NanoEngineering Structural Engineering Academics Undergraduate Majors Master's Degree Programs PH.D. Master's Degrees for Working Professionals COSMOS (Pre-College) Continuing Education Research Research Centers Industry Partnerships Commercialization Faculty Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Best Teacher Awardees For Faculty & Staff Students IDEA Engineering Student Center EnVision Maker Studio Undergraduate Majors Prospective Undergraduates Prospective MS Students Prospective PhD Students Career Resources Student Organizations Gordon Engineering Leadership Center Global TIES Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Alumni Industry Corporate Affiliates Program Institute for the Global Entrepreneur Recruit Students Master's Degrees for Working Professionals Office of Innovation and Commercialization Tokyo Office News Logos Media Contacts News Releases Faculty Experts Photos Brochures Monthly News Email Facebook Blog Video Press Clips Media Resources Giving Submenu Faculty Profiles NAE Members Endowed Chair Professors Faculty Hiring Best Teacher Awardees Faculty Profiles Gabriel M. Rebeiz Professor , Electrical and Computer Engineering Faculty-Affiliate , Calit2 Professor Rebeiz's expertise includes design of silicon RFICs for microwave and millimeter-wave systems with a specialty on phased arrays and low power circuits, active and passive imaging systems up to THz frequencies (including thermal imagers), THz CMOS and SiGe electronics, RF micro-electro-mechanical systems (RF MEMS), reconfigurable front-ends including tunable filters and tunable antennas, cognitive radios, planar antennas from RF to THz frequencies, radars, and collision avoidance systems for automotive applications. Gabriel M. Rebeiz ( NAE Member and IEEE Fellow) is the Wireless Communications Industry Chair Professor of electrical and computer engineering at the University of California San Diego. Prior to this appointment, he was at the University of Michigan from 1988 to 2004. He received his Ph.D. from the California Institute of Technology. He has contributed to planar mm-wave and THz antennas and imaging arrays from 1988-1996, and his group has optimized the dielectric-lens antennas, which is the most widely used antenna at mm-wave and THz frequencies. Prof. Rebeiz group also developed 6-18 GHz and 40-50 GHz 8- and 16-element phased arrays on a single silicon chip, the first mm-wave silicon passive imager chip at 85-105 GHz, and the first silicon 100 GHz wafer-scale phased array. He is also an expert on millimeter-wave planar antennas, phased arrays, and satellite communication systems. He has worked on automotive radars at 24 GHz and 77 GHz since 1998 as a consultant and as a subcontractor to several leading phased-array and automotive radar companies. Prof. Rebeiz was also the first to introduce MEMS and micromachining to the RF/microwave field, and has developed several novel components (tunable filters, wideband switches, low-loss phase shifters, high-Q varactors) using this technology. His group also demonstrated high-Q RF MEMS tunable filters at 1-20 GHz (Q> 200) and the new angular-based RF MEMS capacitive and high-power high-reliability RF MEMS metal-contact switches. His research interests are in the development of RF MEMS devices and tunable filters for the wireless and defense sector (reconfigurable networks, antennas, etc.). He has worked as a consultant for several leading RF MEMS and tunable front-end companies. Capsule Bio: Prof. Rebeiz is an elected member of the National Academy of Engineering (NAE) , an IEEE Fellow, an NSF Presidential Young Investigator, an URSI Koga Gold Medal Recipient, the 2003 IEEE MTT (Microwave Theory and Techniques) Distinguished Young Engineer, and is the recipient of the IEEE MTT 2000 Microwave Prize, the IEEE MTT 2010 Distinguished Educator Award and the 2011 IEEE AP (Antennas and Propagation) John D. Kraus Antenna Award. He also received the 1997-1998 Eta-Kappa-Nu Professor of the Year Award, the 1998 College of Engineering Teaching Award, and the 1998 Amoco Teaching Award given to the best undergraduate teacher at the University of Michigan, and the 2008 Teacher of the Year Award at the Jacobs School of Engineering, UCSD. His students have won a total of 20 best paper awards at IEEE MTT, RFIC and AP-S conferences. He has been an Associate Editor of IEEE MTT, and a Distinguished Lecturer for IEEE MTT, IEEE AP, and IEEE Solid-State Circuits Societies. Prof. Rebeiz has mentored and supervised more than 100 graduate students and post-doctoral fellows, has more than 500 IEEE publications, and currently leads a group of 21 Ph.D. students and Post-Doctoral Fellows in the area of mm-wave silicon RFICs, tunable microwaves circuits, RF MEMS, planar mm-wave antennas and terahertz systems. He is the Director of the UCSD/DARPA Center on RF MEMS Reliability and Design Fundamentals , and the author of the best seller book, RF MEMS: Theory, Design and Technology , Wiley (2003). Selected Publications: Google Scholar Publications Web Page Email: grebeiz@ucsd.edu Office Phone: 858-534-8001 Print Profile Jacobs School Faculty Update Your Profile 2019 Regents of the University of California Social Media Weather Friday, February 15 - Weather@UCSanDiego Jacobs School Home Prospective Undergrad Info Contact Faculty Database Jacobs School IT Support For Faculty & Staff UC San Diego Directory Privacy 
