Asst Professor , Electrical and Computer Engineering Other , Calit2 Network control systems, stochastic control, optimization, distributed computation, distributed optimization, game theory, multi-agent systems, dynamics of biological networks, population games, learning theory Behrouz Touri is interested in dynamics that evolve over time-varying and/or random networks. Examples of such dynamics include opinion dynamics over social networks, spread of a contagious disease over a contact network, dynamics of complex biological networks, and various topics on control and dynamics of power grid networks. He is also interested in optimization theory and its applications in machine learning, home energy systems management and biological networks. Touri's research also focuses on game theory and, in particular, population games and the theory of learning on games. Capsule Bio: Behrouz Touri is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of California San Diego. Prior to this, he was an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical, Computer, and Energy Engineering at the University of Colorado Boulder from 2014 to 2017. Touri got his B.Sc. degree in Electrical Engineering from the Isfahan University of Technology, Isfahan, Iran in 2006, and received his M.Sc. from the Jacobs University Bremen, Bremen, Germany, in 2008. Touri got his Ph.D. from the University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign in 2011. His Ph.D. thesis titled Product of Random Stochastic Matrices and Distributed Averaging has appeared in the Springer Theses Series, recognizing outstanding Ph.D. theses in science and engineering. From 2011 to 2013, he was a postdoctoral researcher at the Coordinated Science Laboratory at the University of Illinois, and from 2013 to 2014, he was a postdoctoral researcher at the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology. He is a recipient of a 2016 AFOSR Young Investigator Award and was a finalist for the best student paper award of the 2010 IEEE Conference on Decision and Control in Atlanta, Georgia. He is the recipient of the prestigious 2018 Donald P. Eckman Award from the American Control Council. Selected Publications: Google Scholar Publications :
