Asst Professor , Electrical and Computer Engineering Faculty , Calit2 Robotics and controls; medical robotics; soft robotics; optimization; machine learning; sensors and actuators; control theory; computer vision; image-guidance and augmented reality; teleoperation; and haptics. Michael Yips research focus is on developing high-performance robotics that achieve dexterous and agile behaviors. This falls into three categories: (i) flexible robotics, (ii) surgical robotics, and (iii) robotic actuators and biomimetics. He investigates the design and control of flexible robotics, or snake-like robotics, for a broad range of medical, industrial, and military applications. Another significant research effort is in designing surgical robots to treat diseases such as heart disease and prostate cancer, including image-guidance and augmented reality for surgeons to guide them during an operation. A third area of research involves the design of robotic actuators and robotic limbs that mimic natural movement; this includes low-cost artificial muscles that have been used to design robot prostheses or animatronics limbs, and could be used for human augmentation. Capsule Bio: Michael Yip joined the Electrical and Computer Science department at UCSD in Fall 2015 after receiving his Ph.D. from Stanford University. At Stanford, he led research efforts in designing and controlling highly-dexterous and flexible robots in complex environments such as the beating heart. His work has been nominated and has won best paper awards at the International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), the largest of its kind. He has also been a visiting researcher at the Harvard University and MIT in the area of surgical robotics and tissue engineering, respectively. He was an Imagineer with Walt Disney Research designing next-generation animatronics. He holds a Bachelor of Mechatronics Engineering from the University of Waterloo, and a Master of Electrical Engineering from the University of British Columbia. Selected Publications: Google Scholar Publications :
