 Skip to main content Graduate Division Graduate Division UC San Diego Search This Site All UCSD Sites Faculty/Staff Search Term About News Meet the Dean Meet the Team Alumni & Friends Grad Data Contact Admissions Degree Programs Requirements Admitted Students Admission FAQ Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Financial Support Tuition & Fees Fellowships Employment Sponsored Third Party Billing Non-UC Visiting Grads Tax Information Financial FAQ Academics Progress to Degree Enrolling at UC San Diego Preparing to Graduate Policies & Procedures Student Life Diversity Fellowships for Incoming Students Programs & Initiatives Diversity Coordinators Toggle navigation MENU About News Meet the Dean Meet the Team Alumni & Friends Grad Data Contact Admissions Degree Programs Requirements Admitted Students Admission FAQ Annual Security and Fire Safety Report Financial Support Tuition & Fees Fellowships Employment Sponsored Third Party Billing Non-UC Visiting Grads Tax Information Financial FAQ Academics Progress to Degree Enrolling at UC San Diego Preparing to Graduate Policies & Procedures Student Life Diversity Fellowships for Incoming Students Programs & Initiatives Diversity Coordinators Search This Site All UCSD Sites Faculty/Staff Search Term All Things Grad The Graduate Division is the central resource for all matters related to graduate education at UC San Diego. Meet Our Team 2019 Application Is Now Open Learn more about graduate degree programs at UC San Diego and begin the application process today. Start Your Application Previous Next Join us at UC San Diego We offer a wide variety of academic and professional graduate degree programs and we welcome talented prospective students from across the nation and around the world to apply for admission. apply now Live Your Grad Life The comprehensive destination for campus life and current grad students. Grad Life is the home for information about professional development, campus events, student well-being and much more! Visit Grad Life Meet Grad Division Degrees & Programs Advance your career with a graduate degree from UC San Diego - with over 100 academic and professional programs across diverse disciplines, we are confident you will find the right fit. Browse Opportunities Explore the wide range of opportunities for financial support through fellowships, student employment, and other on-campus programs. Explore About us Meet the team of professionals who supports your graduate student experience, helping you successfully navigate a path from admission to graduation and beyond. Meet the Team Learn More Meet Our Alumni UC San Diego graduate alumni establish successful careers within exciting fields and are equipped with the skills and confidence to impact their communities and make a difference. alumni & friends Figures Find full reports and data about Grad Division at UC San Diego. View Reports Get Social Like us on Facebook https://www.facebook.com/gradlifeucsd/ Follow us on Twitter https://twitter.com/ucsdgraddiv (content for everyone) https://twitter.com/ucsdgradlife (content for current grad students) Follow us on Instagram https://www.instagram.com/ucsdgraddiv/ (content for everyone) https://www.instagram.com/ucsdgradlife/ (content for current grad students) Connect with us on LinkedIn https://www.linkedin.com/school/university-of-california-at-san-diego/ Tag us with #ucsdgradlife Support Graduate Education Our campus is home to incredibly talented faculty and graduate students top scholars who lead labs and teach in classrooms while solving societys most pressing problems. We are grateful to many generous donors who choose to support graduate education at UC San Diego and we invite you to join us. give today UC San Diego 9500 Gilman Dr. La Jolla, CA 92093 (858) 534-2230 Copyright 2019 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions Feedback 
