 Corey Toler-Franklin, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Director, Graphics, Imaging & Light Measurement Lab (GILMLab) Bio Dr. Toler-Franklin is an Assistant Professor in theDepartment of Computer & Information Science & Engineering at the University of Florida where she directs the Graphics, Imaging & Light Measurement Laboratory (GILMLab) . Prior to joining the faculty at UF, Dr. Toler-Franklin was a University of California Presidents Postdoctoral Fellow in the Computer Science Department at UC Davis and a researcher at the CITRIS Banatao Institute at UC Berkeley . Dr. Toler-Franklin was the first African American to earn a Ph.D. in Computer Science from Princeton University . She obtained a Master of Science degree from the Cornell University Program of Computer Graphics and a Bachelor of Architecture degree from Cornell University . Dr. Toler-Franklin has considerable industry experience, having worked at Autodesk , Adobe and Google . Her research lies at the intersection of Computer Vision, Graphics and Optics, focusing on 3D Data Acquisition, Physically-Based Appearance Modeling, Imaging Spectroscopy, Machine Learning and Non-Photorealistic Rendering. Dr. Toler-Franklin was awarded the 2013 NSF iDigBio Visiting Scholar Award to support her current work developing new optical capture techniques and image processing algorithms to analyze the shape and appearance of complex biological materials from rare collections of biological specimens. In collaboration with the UF Shands Hospital Oncology Department , Dr. Toler-Franklin is developing new computer vision algorithms and display technologies to assist with the diagnosis of metastatic cancer. Research Areas Computer Vision & Medical Image Computing, Image and Signal Analysis Education Ph.D. Computer Science, Princeton University, 2011 M.S. Cornell University, 1999 BArch. Cornell University, 1997 Research Interests Computer Vision & related topics in Computer Graphics 3D Acquisition & Appearance Modeling Multispectral Imaging Imaging Spectroscopy Machine Learning & Matching Non-Photorealistic Rendering Publications Learning How to Match Fresco Fragments Thomas Funkhouser, Hijung Shin, Corey Toler-Franklin, Antonio Garcia Castaneda, Benedict Brown, David Dobkin, Szymon Rusinkiewicz, Tim Weyrich. Eurographics 2011 Special Area Track on Cultural Heritage, Llandudno, UK, April 2011 Multi-Feature Matching of Fresco Fragments Corey Toler-Franklin, Benedict Brown, Tim Weyrich, Thomas Funkhouser, Szymon Rusinkiewicz. ACM Transactions on Graphics (Proc. SIGGRAPH Asia), Seoul, Korea, December 2010 A System for High-Volume Acquisition and Matching of Fresco Fragments: Reassembling Theran Wall Paintings: Benedict Brown, Corey Toler-Franklin, Diego Nehab, Michael Burns, Andreas Vlachopoulos, Christos Doumas, David Dobkin, Szymon Rusinkiewicz, Tim Weyrich. ACM Transactions on Graphics (Proc. SIGGRAPH), Los Angeles, CA, August, 2008 Illustration of Complex Real-World Objects using Images with Normals. Corey Toler-Franklin, Adam Finkelstein, and Szymon Rusinkiewicz. International Symposium on Non-Photorealistic Animation and Rendering (NPAR) San Diego, CA, August 2007 Click here for full list. Awards & Distinctions Honors Google Anita Borg Scholarship for Women in Computer Science: Finalist 2009 Autodesk 2002 Software Developer Award 2002 Shreve Award: MS Thesis Project - For excellence and originality 1999 The Eschweiler Prize: Recognized for outstanding academic accomplishments 1997 Sponsored Research NSF iTest (#1510410) $1,194,054.00, Co-PI, Corey Toler-Franklin 2016 NSF iDigBio Visiting Scholar Award, PI Corey Toler-Franklin 2013 University of California Presidents Postdoctoral Fellowship, 2012 -2014 National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowship 2005-2008 Presidential Fellowship, Princeton University 2005-2009 Merit Award, Princeton University 2005-2009 Robert James Eidlitz Traveling Fellowship 1998 Contact Information Telephone: 352-505-1574 Fax: 352-392-1220 Email: ctoler@cise.ufl.edu Website: http://www.coreytoler.com Office: E332
