 Skip to main content Elizabeth M. Belding Professor Home Publications Research Professional Activities News Location Elizabeth M. Belding Professor Department of Computer Science University of California Santa Barbara, California 93106 Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering University of California, Santa Barbara 2000. ebelding@cs.ucsb.edu Here is my CV . Research Interests: Mobile Wireless Networking Online Social Networks Network Analysis Information and Communication Technologies for Development (ICTD) SelectedUCSBLeadership: Chair of the Chancellor's Advisory Committee on the Status of Women (2014 - present) Vice Chair of the Computer Science Department (2009 - 2015; 2017 - present) Associate Director for theCenter for Information Technology and Society(2012 - 2015) Official Bio: Elizabeth M. Belding is a Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of California, Santa Barbara. Elizabeths research focuses on mobile and wireless networking, including network performance analysis, and information and communication technologies for development (ICTD). She is a co-developer of the AODV routing protocol for mobile networks, on which 802.11s and Zigbee technologies are based in part. The original AODVpaper published in WMCSA'99received the 2018 ACM SIGMOBILE Test of Time Award. Elizabeth applies her wireless network expertise to a wide range of contexts, and isparticularly interested inimproving Internet and cellular accessibility in developing and resource-challenged communities worldwide. Her ICTD projects have included work in Zambia, South Africa, Mongolia, and refugee camps. Most recently, she has been working with Native American communities around the US. She is the founder and director of the Mobility Management and Networking (MOMENT) Laboratory. Elizabeth is the author of over 140 technical papers on wireless networking and has served on over 70 conference technical program committees. She was Vice Chair of the UCSB Computer Science department 2009-15, and is again currently Vice Chair. Elizabeth is the recipient of an NSF CAREER Award, and a 2002 MIT Technology Review 100 award, awarded to the worlds top young investigators. She is an ACM Fellow and an IEEE Fellow. She is particularly proud of receiving the UCSB Outstanding Graduate Mentor Award in 2012 and the NCWIT Harrold and Notkin Research and Graduate Mentoring Award in 2015 for her mentorship of graduate students. Informal, More Interesting Personal Narrative: Prof. Elizabeth Belding'sgoal is to connect you with the world, no matter who you are, where you live, and what is happening around you. As a professor of Computer Science with over 20 years of experience in wireless networking, sheapplieshertechnical skills to socially impactful research to improve the safety and well-being of those who are underrepresented. In particular, shedevelops innovative communication solutions to improve Internet access in marginalized communities and after natural disasters, and shestudiesInternet use and performance in developing regions. She has recently expanded the scope of her research to thestudyof social networks, focusing on hate speech and gender-based violence. With a motto of creating opportunity and empowering others to reach their potential, Prof. Beldingenjoys developing research visions and then creating and leading research teams to accomplish them. A critical component of her work is her passion for student mentorship; sheis particularly proud of receiving graduate student mentorship awards from both UCSB and the National Center for Women & Information Technology. Through her research and service leadership at UCSB, Prof. Belding iscommitted to empowering and advocating for others and making a positive impact locally and globally. Publications wordle: The Belding Bridge of wireless connectivity. Recent News I am honored to have been selected as a 2018 ACM Fellow! I am thrilled that my very first published paper, "Ad hoc On-Demand Distance Vector Routing", published at WMCSA'99, hasreceived the 2018 ACM SIGMOBILETest of Time Award ! Congratulations to MOMENT Lab students Mai ElSherief and Dana Nguyen on their publications of TWO papers on hate speech analysis at AAAI ICWSM! 16% acceptance rate! Congratulations to MOMENT Lab undergraduate researcher Dana Nguyen on receiving a Google Lime Scholarship! I am honored to have recently been selected as a recipient of the 2017 N2Women Stars in Networking and Communication award . Here is the UCSB Press Release describing the award and my research. Congratulations to MOMENT Lab undergraduate student researcher Dana Nguyen on receiving an honorable mention for the 2018 Computing Research Association's (CRA) Outstanding Undergraduate Researcher Award! This is a well-deserved honor! My research group is looking for new Ph.D. and MS students to work exciting new projects! Current students, please contact me. Prospective students - please apply to the CS Department and send me an email that you saw this post and have applied. Congratulations to Moment Lab student Michael Nekrasov on the acceptance of his paper to FOCI'17, and to Morgan Vigil-Hayes on the acceptance of her paper to IMWUT (UbiComp'17)! Congratulations to newly graduated Drs. Vigil-Hayes and Schmitt! We wish you a wonderful and successful career! Congratulations to Moment Lab Ph.D. student Mai El-Sherief on her reception of the 2017UCSBFiona and Michael Goodchild Graduate Mentoring Award! Mai is an outstanding mentor of undergraduate students! Admin Login Copyright The Regents of the University of California , All Rights Reserved. UC Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, CA 93106 - (805) 893-8000 UCSB Privacy Notification Statement | Site information 
