 Teofilo F. Gonzalez Professor Emeritus of Computer Science University of California Santa Barbara Room 2119, Harold Frank Hall Department of Computer Science University of California Santa Barbara, CA 93106-5110 E-Mail: teo@cs.ucsb.edu Telephone: (805) 893-3849 Facsimile: (805) 893-8553 . Retirement Announcemt, Remarks and Party Pictures 1972 Computing Colleagues, Omen and Outcome My Computers from 1967 - 1972 Invariants and Change Recent Observations More Observations Drone over UCSB Ph.D., University of Minnesota 1975 Research interests: multimessage multicasting, message dissemination algorithms, design and analysis of algorithms, approximation algorithms, scheduling algorithms, computational geometry, VLSI placement and routing algorithms. >>>>>> Office Hours <<<<<< Handbooks Edited Handbook of Approximation Algorithms and Metaheuristics, Second Edition, Chapman & Hall / CRC March 2018, Edited by Teofilo F. Gonzalez, TOC Volume 1: Methodologies and Traditional Applications Volume 2: Contemporary and Emerging Applications Two-Volume Third Edition of The Computing Handbook Set, Editor-In-Chief Allen B. Tucker, April 2014, Chapman & Hall / CRC. Volume 1: Computer Science and Software Engineering, Edited by Teofilo F. Gonzalez and Jorge Diaz-Herrera; Volume 2: Information Systems and Information Technology, Edited by Heikki Topi. and Handbook of Approximation Algorithms and Metaheuristics, Chapman & Hall / CRC 2007, Edited by Teofilo F. Gonzalez. Proceedings Edited (Partial List) Dr. Gonzalez received the B.Sc. degree in Computer Science from the Instituto Tecnologico de Monterrey (1972) and the Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, (1975). He has been Professor of Computer Science at the Oklahoma University (1975-1976)), Penn State University (1976-1979), ITESM (1979-1980), University of Texas at Dallas (1980-1984) and the Univesity of California Santa Barbara (1984-2016). On July 1st 2016 he became Professor Emeritus of Computer Science at the University of California, Sanat Barbara. In 2009 Professor Gonzalez became IASTED Fellow for his "contributions to Multicasting Dissemination Algotithms for Parallel and Distributed Computing, as well as for his decade long commitment to PDCS and IASTED". Professor Gonzalez research activity has concentrated on the development of efficient exact and approximation algorithms as well as computational complexity issues for problems in several disciplines. Current CV. most significant PREVIOUS main research contributions, most significant RECENT research contributions, and other electronic journal publications (some publications). Professor Gonzalez is currently working on Multi-Message Multicasting algorithms for networks. The is a fundamental problem that arises when executing program in parallel computer systems. Some applications include iterative methods for solving systems of linear and non-linear equations, and most dynamic programming procedures, etc. His research contributions include work in message routing and parallel and distributed computing. He has also developed efficient approximation algorithms for message dissemination problems in hypercubes and communication networks when communication links or nodes fail. He has also developed efficient approximation algorithms for deterministic scheduling problems. These problems have applications in manufacturing systems as well as in task assignment in real-time multiprocessor systems. He has developed efficient algorithms for preemptive and nonpreemptive scheduling problems in open, flow and job shops, as well as in identical, uniform and unrelated processor systems and grid systems. Dr. Gonzalez has also investigated the complexity of generating exact and approximate solutions to a set of computational geometry problems. Specifically, he has developed some very interesting algorithms for partitioning, grouping and covering problems. These are robust algorithms that generalize to any number of dimensions. These problems have applications in computer-aided design, cluster analysis, etc. Recently he has developed algorithms for corridor and bridge problems. In the area of computer-aided design of integrated circuits and systems , he developed efficient algorithms for component placement and wire routing for VLSI and MPCB systems. Specifically, he has developed efficient algorithms for channel, rectangle, and switchbox routing problems, via assignment, via placement, pin redistribution, and layer assignment for VLSI and MPCB systems. Dr. Gonzalez has also developed exact and approximation algorithms for graph problems, code minimization, clustering, two-dimensional map compression, generalized dictionaries, statistical tests, page fault minimization, etc. His work has been published in the Journal of ACM, Transactions on Algorithms, SIAM Journal on Computing, Algorithmica, Theoretical Computer Science , Parallel Processing Letters, IEEE Transactions Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, Journal of Parallel Computing, Journal of Supercomputing , Journal of Computational Geometry: Theory and Applications,International Journal on Computational Geomety and Applications, Computational Geometry: Theory and Applications, , Integration: The VLSI Journal, IEEE Transactions on Computer--Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems , other journals , as well as in journals and transactions published by ACM , IEEE , INFORMS, SIAM, and other societies , Research Books , and Algorithms , Parallel, Disctibuted , VLSI and CAD conferences. In addition, his work has been presented in other Conferences . He edited the Handbook on Approximation Algorithms and Metaheuristics, and is currently editing Volume I of The Computing Handbook Set (Chapman & Hall/CRC Press). He has published chapters in the following Chapman & Hall/CRC Press Handbooks . Professor Gonzalez is currently Associate Editor of ACM Computing Surveys (2013- ), IEEE Transactions on Computers (1992-1996 and 2010- ), Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing and Networks, (2011- ), IASTED International Journal of Computers and Applications (2003- ), International Journal of Advanced Networking and Applications (IJANA), (2012- ), and Journal of Communications and Computer Security, Editorial Board, (2011- ). He has been Guest Editor for several journals and has edited a few publications. He was the International Program Committee Chair for the IASTED Parallel and Distributed Computing and Systems Conference (2001-2004, and 2008-2012). Concluding Reports: PDCS 2012 Las Vegas, NV; PDCS 2011 Dallas, TX; PDCS 2010 Marina Del Rey, CA; PDCS 2009 Cambridge, MA; PDCS 2008 Orlando, FL; PDCS 2004 MIT Cambridge, MA; PDCS 2003 Marina Del Rey, CA; PDCS 2002 MIT Cambridge, MA; and PDCS 2001 Anaheim, CA. He has received the Outstanding Computer Science Professor of the Year Award at UCSB in 1987, 1994, and 2001. Dr. Gonzalez current research interests are the design of efficient algorithms for multimessage multicasting in networks, scheduling algorithms, message dissemination, parallel and distributed computing, and algorithms for partitioning, grouping and covering problems. . June 2010 (last time updated). E-mail comments and questions to teo@cs.ucsb.edu. UCSB CS Technical Report Link . Number of hits since 4/24/2000: New Handbook Edited Two-Volume Second Edition of Handbook on Approximation Algoithms and Metaheurisics, Edited by Teofilo F. Gonzalez, (to appear 2018), Chapman & Hall / CRC. Volume 1: Methodologies and Traditional Applications Volume 2: Contemporary and Emerging Applications 
