 Trinabh Gupta I am an assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of California, Santa Barbara . Most recently, I was a postdoctoral researcher in the Systems Security and Privacy research group at MSR Redmond , where I spent one year. I received my PhD in Computer Science from The University of Texas at Austin , where I was advised by Michael Walfish and Lorenzo Alvisi . Research Interests My research interests are in computer systems, security, and privacy. I enjoy taking theoretical constructs from the literature (e.g., cryptography) and carefully applying them to add strong security and privacy properties to computer systems. An example system that I built is Popcorn: a Netflix-like media delivery service that serves movies without requiring to know which movies users are requesting! I am looking for PhD students. If you are interested in working on secure computer systems, and are serious about that, then send me an email. Teaching CS170 (Undergraduate) Operating Systems: Winter 2019 Publications o Proving the correct execution of concurrent services in zero-knowledge Srinath Setty , Sebastian Angel, Trinabh Gupta, and Jonathan Lee USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation OSDI 2018 , Carlsbad, CA, October 2018. o Toward practical and private online services Trinabh Gupta PhD dissertation, The University of Texas at Austin, August 2017. o Pretzel: Email encryption and provider-supplied functions are compatible Trinabh Gupta, Henrique Fingler , Lorenzo Alvisi , and Michael Walfish ACM SIGCOMM 2017 , Los Angeles, CA, August 2017. [ slides , talk ] o Scalable and private media consumption with Popcorn Trinabh Gupta, Natacha Crooks, Whitney Mulhern, Srinath Setty , Lorenzo Alvisi , and Michael Walfish USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation NSDI 2016 , Santa Clara, CA, March 2016. [ slides , talk ] o TARDiS : A Branch and Merge Approach to Weak Consistency Natacha Crooks, Youer Pu, Nancy Estrada, Trinabh Gupta, Lorenzo Alvisi , and Allen Clement ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data SIGMOD 2016 , San Francisco, CA, June 2016. o Taming uncertainty in distributed systems with help from the network Joshua B. Leners , Trinabh Gupta, Marcos K. Aguilera, and Michael Walfish ACM European Conference on Computer Systems EuroSys 2015 , Bordeaux, France, April 2015. o Bolt: Data Management for Connected Homes Trinabh Gupta, Rayman Preet Singh, Amar Phanishayee , Jaeyeon Jung, and Ratul Mahajan USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation NSDI 2014 , Seattle, WA, April 2014. [ slides , talk ] o Towards a storage system for connected homes Trinabh Gupta, Amar Phanishayee , Jaeyeon Jung, and Ratul Mahajan Workshop on Large-Scale Distributed Systems and Middleware LADIS 2013 , Farmington, PA, November 2013. [ slides ] o Improving availability in distributed systems with failure informers Joshua B. Leners , Trinabh Gupta, Marcos K. Aguilera, and Michael Walfish USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation NSDI 2013 , Lombard, IL, April 2013. [ slides , talk ] o Evolution of an Online Social Aggregation Network: An Empirical Study Sanchit Garg, Trinabh Gupta, Niklas Carlsson, and Anirban Mahanti ACM Internet Measurement Conference IMC 2009 , Chicago, IL, November 2009. o Characterization of FriendFeed - A Web-based Social Aggregation Service Trinabh Gupta, Sanchit Garg, Anirban Mahanti , Niklas Carlsson, and Martin Arlitt International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media ICWSM 2009 , San Jose, CA, May 2009. Professional service o External reviewer, 2018 USENIX NSDI o Scholarship committee, 2017 ACM SOSP o External reviewer, 2017 IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering (TKDE) o External reviewer, 2017 ACM CCS Contact information Department of Computer Science, UCSB 1121 Harold Frank Hall Santa Barbara, California, 93106-5110 email: trinabh atcsdot ucsb dot edu 
