Andrew A. Chien William Eckhardt Distinguished Service Professor Department of Computer Science Director, CERES Center for Unstoppable Computing Senior Computer Scientist, Argonne Natl Laboratory Editor in Chief, Communications of the ACM Email: achien@cs.uchicago.edu Phone: (773) 834-0117 Office: JCL 339 Website: http://achien.cs.uchicago.edu/ Research: applications, cloud software, hardware and system architecture, renewable energy and power markets, resource management, systems Biography Andrew is a Fellow of the ACM, IEEE, and AAAS. He is Editor-in-Chief of the Communications of the ACM (CACM), and on Advisory Boards for several universities and corporate research laboratories. Andrew served on the National Science Foundation's CISE Advisory Committee from 2006-2010, and the Board of the Computing Research Association from 2006-2011. He has served on numerous visiting and advisory committees for the Department of Energy, Stanford University, University of California Berkeley, University of Washington, EPFL, and other leading research organizations. From 2005-2010, Andrew was the Vice President of Research of Intel Corporation where he led long-range and disruptive technologies research in computer science. in this role, he was instrumental in creation of the Universal Parallel Computing Research Centers (UPCRC) focused on parallel software, the Open Cirrus Consortium focused on Cloud computing, and Intels long range computing technology -- Exascale -- Research program (UHPC). Chiens previous positions also include the SAIC Endowed Chair Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, and founding Director of the Center for Networked Systems at the University of California at San Diego (1998-2005). From 1999 to 2003, Andrew was Founder and CTO of Entropia, Inc. an early grid computing company. Chien was a Professor of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and the National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA)(1990-1998). Education Sc.D. in Computer Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology S.M. in Computer Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology S.B. in Electrical Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Projects 10x10 Taming Heterogeneity for General Purpose Computing Zero-carbon Cloud (ZCCloud) Global View Resilience (GVR) Laboratories Large-Scale Systems Group Selected Publications Fan Yang and Andrew A. Chien, "ZCCloud: Exploring Wasted Green Power for High-Performance Computing", IPDPS, May 2016 Yuanwei Fang, Chen Zou, Aaron Elmore, and Andrew A. Chien. UDP: A Programmable Accelerator for Extract-Transform-Load Workloads and More , in Proceedings of the 50th Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO-50), October 2017 Fan Yang and Andrew A. Chien, Large-scale and Extreme-Scale Computing with Stranded Green Power: Opportunities and Costs , IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, Volume 29, Issue 5, 12 December 2017, pp. 1103-1116. A. Chien and V. Karamcheti, Moores Law: The First Ending and A New Beginning. IEEE Computer, December 2013. S. Borkar and A. Chien, The Future of Microprocessors, Communications of the Association for Computing Machinery, May 2011.
