 Home Research Publications Resources Photos Miscellaneous Yu-Xiang Wang's Homepage Yu-Xiang Wang Eugene Aas Chair Assistant Professor Computer Science Department, UC Santa Barbara Office: HFH-2121 E-mail: yuxiangw AT cs.ucsb.edu Yu-Xiang is pronounced approximately as ['ju:'i:] , namely, y~eu~ee - sh~ih~ah~ng . Looking for self-motivated students and postdocs. Welcome Hello! Welcome to my homepage. I am a faculty member of the computer science department in UCSB. Prior joining UCSB, I was a scientist with Amazon AI in Palo Alto. Even before that I was with the Machine Learning Department in Carnegie Mellon University and had the pleasure of being jointly advised by Stephen Fienberg , Alex Smola , Ryan Tibshirani and Jing Lei . Over the years I have worked on a diverse set of problems in the broad area of statistical machine learning, e.g., trend filtering, differential privacy, subspace clustering, large-scale learning / optimization, bandits / reinforcement learning, just to name a few. Check out my publication page for details. My most recent quests include making differential privacy practical and developing a statistical foundation for off-policy reinforcement learning. Teaching CS165A Artificial Intelligence (2019 Winter) : [course website] Publications , Google Scholar profile News Dec 2018 : Three papers accepted to AISTATS'19. Two of them are accepted as oral presentations (top 2.5% of all submissions). (see here) Preprints available soon. Dec 2018 : Our ProxQuant paper is accepted to ICLR'19. Congrats, Yu Bai ! See the full paper here. Dec 2018 : Attended NeurIPS in Montreal. Talked about ``Subsampled Renyi DP'' at the ``Privacy Preserving Machine Learning' workshop. My intern Tengyang Xie talked about on ``Marginalized Off-policy Evaluation for Reinforcement Learning'' at the Causal Learning Workshop. Nov 2018 : A few journal papers to appear: Operations Research (see here) , IEEE Transaction of Information Theory (here) and the Journal of Confidentiality and Privacy (and here) . Nov 2018 : Attended the ``Privacy in Graphs'' workshop in UC Santa Cruz and talked about``Per-instance Differential Privacy'' (to appear in JPC). Nov 2018 : Visited Caltech and talked about ``off-policy learning'' withou needing to know logging probabilities. May 2018 : Paper "Revisiting differentially private linear regression" is accepted to UAI'2018 a plenary talk. Check out the full paper here May 2018 : Three papers are accepted to ICML'2018: SignSGD / signum , LabelShift and Analytical Gaussian mechanism for differential privacy . See here . Feb 2018 Visited UCSB and talked about ``signed updates in nonconvex optimization and Mxnet Gluon''. 
