Jacob Schrum Assistant Professor of Computer Science Expertise Artificial Intelligence, specifically Evolutionary Computation, Neural Networks, Neuroevolution, Artificial Life, Multiobjective Optimization, and Reinforcement Learning. Notable Achievements Dr. Schrum majored in Computer Science, Math, and German as an undergraduate at Southwestern University, and graduated in 2006. He then attended graduate school at the University of Texas at Austin, where he earned his PhD in Computer Science with a focus on Artificial Intelligence. In particular, Dr. Schrum applies Evolutionary Computation to video game domains. As a graduate student at UT, he won the BotPrize competition in 2012, which was a Turing Test for bots in the game Unreal Tournament 2004, and his dissertation focused on the evolution of Neural Networks to play the classic game of Ms. Pac-Man. Since returning to Southwestern University as a professor in 2014, he encourages active learning and participation in the classroom. He has filmed over 80 short instructional videos for students to watch before class, so that in-class sessions can be focused on problem solving. He is also a regular mentor for Southwestern Universitys SCOPE summer research program, and has published several research papers with Southwestern University students. He also interacts with students outside of class as a member of both the CS Club and German Club. Dr. Schrums research focuses on automatically discovering intelligent behavior in complex domains, such as video games and other complex simulated environments. He often uses Neuroevolution, the simulated evolution of artificial neural network brains, in order to discover such behavior. A particular focus of this research is to find ways to help learning systems automatically develop multiple modes of behavior in order to handle multiple tasks. Because different tasks are often associated with different objectives, Dr. Schrum is also interested in Multiobjective Optimization. Dissertation
