 Jeff Heflin Associate Professor Department of Computer Science and Engineering , Lehigh University Contact Info: Address: (recently changed) Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering Lehigh University 113 Research Drive Bethlehem, PA 18015 Office: Mountaintop Building C, Room 232 Office Hours: Mon. 1-2:30pm, Thr. 10:30am-12pm and by appointment Important: The CSE department moved to Mountaintop Building C in January 2018. Except where noted, all of my office hours will be held on the Mountaintop Campus. Here's information about the new location. E-Mail: heflin@cse.lehigh.edu Phone: (610) 758-6533 Courses: Here are the courses I am currently teaching or have taught recently. For a complete list of the courses I have taught, click here Spring 2019 CSE 327: Artificial Intelligence Theory and Practice , MW 2:35-3:50pm. This class will be held in Building C on the Mountaintop campus and is only open to declared CS, CSB, and CogSci majors. Space is limited. Fall 2018 CSE 17: Structured Programming and Data Structures (CourseSite: CSE-017-012-FL18 ), TTh 10:45am-12pm, XS 303 CSE 406: Research Methods (CourseSite: CSE-406-010-FL18 ), MW 2:35-3:50pm, BC 216 Spring 2018 CSE 327: Artificial Intelligence Theory and Practice , TTh 1:10-2:25, Neville 002 Fall 2017 CSE 17: Structured Programming and Data Structures Spring 2017 CSE 17: Structured Programming and Data Structures CSE 327: Artificial Intelligence Theory and Practice Fall 2016 CSE 17: Structured Programming and Data Structures CSE 431: Intelligent Agents Research: The Semantic Web and Agent Technologies (SWAT) Lab The Semantic Web is a vision for extending the Web so that machines can more intelligently integrate and process the wealth of information that is available. Unlike HTML and ordinary XML, Semantic Web languages such as SHOE , DAML+OIL , and OWL (a W3C Recommendation), allow semantics (i.e., meaning) to be explicitly associated with the content. The semantics are formally specified in ontologies, which can be shared via the Internet and extended for local needs. The SWAT lab is at the forefront of Semantic Web research by studying issues such as interoperability of distributed ontologies, ontology evolution, and system architectures and tools for the Semantic Web. See the group's homepage for details. Selected Publications: Also see the full list of SWAT publications and the list of my publications prior to directing the SWAT Lab at Lehigh . Dezhao Song and Jeff Heflin. Automatically Generating Data Linkages Using a Domain-Independent Candidate Selection Approach . 10th International Semantic Web Conference. Bonn, Germany. LNCS 7031. Springer. November 2011. This paper describes how to improve the speed of determining mappings between objects described in RDF (although it can be easily applied to any graph data). The process requires no domain-specific information other than what classes and properties are comparable, which can be found in existing ontologies or by ontology-alignment techniques. We show that mappings between 1 million instance can be performed in under one hour on a Sun workstation. Surprisingly, this high recall, low precision filtering mechanism frequently leads to higher F-scores in the overall system. Yang Yu and and Jeff Heflin. Extending Functional Dependency to Detect Abnormal Data in RDF Graphs . The 10th International Semantic Web Conference. Bonn, Germany. Springer. November 2011. This paper describes a domain-independent approach to determining the data quality of graph data. The approach first learns probable functional dependencies in the graph, considering a fuzzy matching of values to account for some variation in the data. These functional dependencies are then used to test for data that does not fit the pattern. Experimental tests identified over 2800 anomalous triples in DBPedia, and investigation of a random sample found that 86.5% of these were actual errors. Y. Li, and J. Heflin. Using Reformulation Trees to Optimize Queries over Distributed Heterogeneous Sources . Ninth International Semantic Web Conference (ISWC 2010). 2010. This paper describes an algorithm that uses the structure of a rule-goal tree expressing the rewrites of a given query to efficiently locate the relevant sources. It starts with the most selective query nodes, and incrementally loads sources, using the information to refine queries of subsequent sources. Our experiments show that this algorithm can answer many randomly-generated complex queries against 20 million heterogeneous data sources in less than 30 seconds. Z. Pan, A. Qasem, J. Heflin. An Investigation into the Feasibility of the Semantic Web . In Proc. of the Twenty First National Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI 2006), Boston, USA, 2006. pp. 1394-1399. This is the first paper to discuss our attempts to realize the vision of the Semantic Web as a Web-scale query-answering system. We loaded nearly 350,000 real-world semantic web documents that committed to 41,000 ontologies into our DLDB system and then used additional "mapping ontologies" to integrate them. This experiment yielded promising results in that query times ranged from a few milliseconds to 5 seconds. Y. Guo, Z. Pan, and J. Heflin. LUBM: A Benchmark for OWL Knowledge Base Systems . Journal of Web Semantics 3(2), 2005, pp158-182. This is the definitive reference on the Lehigh University Benchmark (LUBM) and on empirical evaluation of Semantic Web knowledge base systems in general. This journal article coalesces the results from the ISWC 2003 and ISWC 2004 papers, the latter of which won the best paper award at the conference. In addition, it includes a discussion of preliminary tests on Jena and SPARQL versions of the benchmark queries. Recent Service Activities: 16th International Semantic Web Conference (ISWC 2017) , General Chair The First International Workshop on Biomedical Data Integration and Discovery (BMDID 2016) , Organizing Committee AAAI-13 , Special Track on AI and the Web, Track Chair 11th International Semantic Web Conference (ISWC 2012) , Co-Program Chair Twenty-Sixth Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-12) , Senior Program Committee Artificial Intelligence Journal , Editorial Board Journal of Web Semantics , Special Issue on Web-scale Semantic Information Processing , Guest Editor Journal of Web Semantics , Special Issue on Evaluation of Semantic Technologies, Guest Editor Awards: Winner of the Billion Triple Challenge, ISWC 2012 for Exploring the Linked Data Cloud via Contextual Tag Cloud by X. Zhang, D. Song, S.Priya, Z. Daniels, K. Reynolds and J. Heflin. Best paper award, ISWC 2004 for An Evaluation of Knowledge Base Systems for Large OWL Datasets by Yuanbo Guo, Zhengxiang Pan and Jeff Heflin. Education: Ph.D. in Computer Science, University of Maryland , 2001. M.S. in Computer Science, University of Maryland , 1999. B.S. in Computer Science, The College of William and Mary , 1992. Memberships: American Association for Artificial Intelligence (1998 - present), Senior Member since 2014 Phi Beta Kappa , Alpha of Virginia Chapter (inducted 1992) Information for Prospective Graduate Students: Please do not send me e-mail asking me to evaluate your chances of admission to the department. I typically do not respond to such requests. If you are interested in joining my research group, then send me an e-mail that specifically describes what you would like to do and what prior qualifications you have. However, I recommend that you read some of my publications and explore our current research first. If I think your interests match our research, then I will contact you for further information. Semantic Web Resources: The Semantic Web by Tim Berners-Lee, James Hendler, and Ora Lassila The Scientific American article that presents the vision of the Semantic Web. State of the LOD Cloud Statistics about the Linked Open Data cloud provided by Freie Universitat Berlin. Linked Open Data is real data in Semantic Web form and is growing daily. Thesestatistics are typically updated once a year. Semantic Web Case Studies and Use Cases A continually growing list of applications of Semantic Web technology collected by the W3C. Case studies are actually deployed systems, while use cases are prototype systems. SemanticWeb.org A Semantic Wiki for the Semantic Web community. Includes information on tools, ontologies, people, and events. Semantic Web Activity at W3C The World Wide Web Consortium's collection of specifications, working groups, and resources related to the Semantic Web. SemWebCentral A web site for non-developers to learn about the Semantic Web and for developers to share Semantic Web tools. [OWL Markup] 
