 COLLEGE HOME | LEHIGH HOME | SEARCH Home Research Courses Publications Patents Talks Professional Conferences People Student Resources Other Activities Vita (PDF) PatRec Lab Daniel P. Lopresti Professor and Chair , Department of Computer Science and Engineering Director , Data X Initiative Lehigh University 113 Research Drive Bethlehem, PA 18015 USA Phone: (610) 758-5782 Email*: Office: Mountaintop Building C 215 Daniel Lopresti received his bachelor's degree from Dartmouth in 1982 and his Ph.D. in computer science from Princeton in 1987. After completing his doctorate, he joined the Department of Computer Science at Brown and taught courses ranging from VLSI design to computational aspects of molecular biology and conducted research in parallel computing and VLSI CAD. He went on to help found the Matsushita Information Technology Laboratory in Princeton, and later also served on the research staff at Bell Labs where his work turned to document analysis, handwriting recognition, and biometric security. In 2003, Dr. Lopresti joined the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at Lehigh where his research examines fundamental algorithmic and systems-related questions in pattern recognition, bioinformatics, and security. On July 1, 2009, he became Chair of the CSE Department. Effective July 1, 2014, he assumed the role of Interim Dean of the P. C. Rossin College of Engineering and Applied Science at Lehigh. On July 1, 2015, he returned to Chair the CSE Department, as well as to serve as Director of the Data X strategic initiative. Recent News of Note CODE 8.7 Conference @ UN Headquarters Along with colleagues from the Computing Research Association CCC , as well as UN University Delta 8.7 , The Alan Turing Institute , Tech Against Trafficking , and others, I am helping to organize the CODE 8.7 Conference on Using Computational Science and Artificial Intelligence to End Modern Slavery. This will take place in February at UN Headquarters in New York City. Click here for more details. International Association of Pattern Recognition At the recent ICPR 2018 conference in Beijing, I was elected to server a two-year term as Treasurer of the IAPR . I will also be serving on the IAPR Executive Committee during this time. TCFPGA Hall of Fame Class of 2018 One of my first papers, co-authored with colleagues in 1991*, was recently voted into the TCFPGA Hall of Fame (ACM/SIGDA Technical Committee on FPGAs). The award presentation took place at the IEEE Symposium on Field-Programmable Custom Computing Machines in April 2018. * SPLASH Experience Building and Programming a Highly Parallel Programmable Logic Array, M. Gokhale, W. Holmes, A. Kopser, S. Lucas, R. Minnich, D. Sweely, and D. Lopresti, IEEE Computer, January 1991, pp. 81-89. Intelligent Infrastructure On behalf of the Computing Reseach Association , I moderated a Congressional briefing for the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology on Jan. 30, 2018. Panelists included Henning Schulzrinne (Columbia University), Matthew Wansley (nuTonomy), Nadya Bliss (Arizona Statue University), and Elizabeth Mynatt (Georgia Tech). Click here for more details, and here to read a CRA blog posting about the panel session. I also moderated a panel session titled "Rethinking Approaches to Disaster Management and Public Safety With Intelligent Infrastructure" at the Annual Meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Austin, TX on Feb. 16, 2018. Panelists included Michael Dunaway (University of Louisiana, Lafayette), Robin Murphy (Texas A&M University), and Nalini Venkatasubramanian (University of California, Irvine). Click here for more details, and here to read a CCC blog posting about the panel session Lehigh Silicon Valley Once again I led the Software Engineering Track for the highly successful Lehigh Silicon Valley Program (LSV++). I created the track in 2017 in collaboration with the leaders of the innovative Baker Institute . For 2018, we visited Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory , OSIsoft , Adobe , Cisco , Google , Plug and Play Tech Center , and Bracket Computing . Nano/Human Interfaces I am a co-leader of Lehigh's Nano/Human Interfaces Presidential Engineering Research Initiative along with Martin Harmer and Jeffrey Rickman from Materials Science, Anand Jagota from Bioengineering, and Kate Arrington from Psychology. Click here to read the announcement and click here for the NHI website. Data X Strategic Initiative Lehigh has announced Data X, a major university-wide strategic initiative in the area of computing and data analytics. Among other things, the initiative will include new faculty positions in CSE and other key thrust areas across the institution. I will be serving as the Director of Data X. For the announcement, click here . For the Data X homepage, click here . Once again, I am serving as a local Ambassador for the Stanford Women in Data Science Conference (WiDS). We will be livestreaming the 2019 WiDS conference at Lehigh on March 4. Click here for more details about the conference. Lehigh Mountaintop Building C For photos of Building C, once part of Bethlehem Steel's Homer Research Laboratories, click here . After a major renovation project, the CSE Department moved into its new home in Building C in January 2018. My office is no longer located in Packard Lab, it is now BC 215. I was honored to play a role in the renovation of Building C. To view the slides for a talk I was invited to give, click here (this is a big PDF file). Here's a recent article about the project in Tradeline: From Steel to Software: Repurposing an Industrial Building for Education . CRA Computing Community Consortium Council Effective July 1, 2015, I will be serving a three year term on the Computing Community Consortium Council of the Computing Research Association . Systems Computing Challenges in the Internet of Things (CCC Whitepaper), Rajeev Alur, Emery Berger, Ann W. Drobnis, Limor Fix, Kevin Fu, Gregory D. Hager, Daniel Lopresti, Klara Nahrstedt, Elizabeth Mynatt, Shwetak Patel, Jennifer Rexford, John A. Stankovic, and Benjamin Zorn, September 2015. ( PDF 298 kbytes ) Mountaintop Experiential Learning Environmen t I have had significant involvement in the development of Lehigh's new Mountaintop Project. For coverage of this activity, which began in Summer 2013 and continues to grow in size and scope, click here . New Paradigm for Pattern Recognition Research We are investigating a fundamentally new approach to conducting experimental pattern recognition research. Based on advances made possible by Web 2.0 technologies, our vision addresses a number of serious issues with the status quo, including over-reliance on small standard datasets, implicit bias in testing, and irreproducibility of experimental results. For more details on this idea which we call "DARE," click here . Document Analysis and Exploitation We have had an active research effort in the area of document analysis and exploitation for several years now. Much of this work has been conducted in collaboration with colleagues at BBN Technologies with funding from DARPA, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. Henry Baird and I were principal investigators, but congressional funding we received expanded the project to include other colleagues, including Hank Korth. To read a news article about the award, click here . Electronic Voting I serve as an independent expert in the Banfield v. Corts lawsuit challenging the use of certain electronic voting machines in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Click here to learn more about the case, which has been in progress for several years now. A recent ruling by the judge in the case has set the stage for independent examination of Pennsylvania's e-voting systems. The details are now being worked out by parties from both sides. The PERFECT Project We recently wrapped up a modest NSF CyberTrust grant to study issues surrounding the reliable processing of voting records, including paper ballots. Investigators on the project included George Nagy from RPI, Elisa Barney Smith from Boise State, Chris Borick from Muhlenberg, and Ziad Munson and myself from Lehigh. PERFECT is an acronym that stands for "Paper and Electronic Records For Elections: Cultivating Trust." Click here for the PERFECT project website. For access to an important new collection of scanned ballot images from a real election, click here . We have acquired examples of two full-face electronic voting systems manufactured by Danaher and Sequoia. These systems match those used in several PA counties, and were purchased from government surplus auctions on the web. For more information and media coverage, click below: "Major New Investigation of Electronic Voting Machines (press release)" , OpEdNew.com, March 4, 2007. "Dems take aim at vote flaws" , The Morning Call Online, March 6, 2007. "eVoting in the News! (op-ed)" , phillyBurbs.com, March 7, 2007. For other past news on the e-voting issue, click here . Bioinformatics Greg Lang from Biological Sciences and I led a team of student researchers in a 2014 Biosystems Dynamics Summer Institute project. The topic of the project was "Identification of Driver Mutations in Experimental Evolution" and derives from Greg's ongoing reseaerch. The Lehigh BDSI is funded by the Howard Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI). * My email address is expressed in image format to make it more difficult for "bots" to harvest it for spam purposes. 2004 P.C. Rossin College of Engineering & Applied Science Computer Science & Engineering, Packard Laboratory, Lehigh University, Bethlehem PA 18015 
