 COLLEGE HOME | LEHIGH HOME | SEARCH Home Research Courses Publications Talks Service Students Other interests Downloads Hctor Muoz-Avila Professor Computer Science & Engineering Lehigh University 19 Memorial Drive West Bethlehem, PA 18015-3084 USA Phone: 610 758 3797 Fax: (610) 758-4096 Email: hem4ATlehighDOTedu Office: Packard Lab 252 Hours: by appointment Dr. Muoz-Avila is a professor of Computer Science and Engineering and of Cognitive Science at Lehigh University . He is co-director of the Institute for Data, Intelligent Systems, and Computation (I-DISC) Dr. Muoz-Avila is recipient of a National Science Foundation (NSF) CAREER award , two papers awards and held a Lehigh Class of 1961 Professorship. He has been chair for various international scientific meetings including the Sixth International Conference on Case-Based Reasoning (ICCBR-05) and the twenty-fifth Innovative Applications of AI Conference (IAAI-13). Dr. Muoz-Avila served as a program director for Robust Intelligence at the National Science Foundation (NSF), where he managed the AI and ML portfolios and co-spearheaded efforts related to self-monitoring systems. He is/has been funded by the Office of Naval Research (ONR), the National Science Foundation (NSF), the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), the Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) and the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL). He holds a PhD (Dr. rer. nat.) in computer science from the Universitt Kaiserslautern (Germany), an MS in computer science, a BS in Mathematics and a BS in computer Science from the Universidad de los Andes (Colombia). Dr. Muoz-Avila's research focuses on integrated AI, combining statistical machine learning techniques, symbolic planning and other reasoning techniques with the aim of high-level (e.g., cognitive) capabilities that are greater than the sum of its individual parts. He has a broad range of interests in different areas including agents introspectively reasoning about their own actions (i.e., cognitive systems), generalizing and abstracting episodic knowledge into general domain knowledge (i.e., machine learning), adapting to changes in the environment (i.e., agents), learning episodic knowledge (case-based reasoning) and using this knowledge to solve new problems (i.e., planning). A common trait of his research interests is that he frequently works on problems that involve integrating some of these areas as opposed to working on problems that can be circumscribed within any one sole area. He frequently works with researchers both in AI and in other areas including digital games, civil engineering, electrical engineering, cognitive psychology, education, and manufacturing. link to CV (PDF format) 2003 P.C. Rossin College of Engineering & Applied Science Computer Science & Engineering, Packard Laboratory, Lehigh University, Bethlehem PA 18015 
