 Skip to content VADER lab Vision, Assistive Devices, and Experimental Robotics Laboratory Menu Home Research Projects Publications News & Events People Getting Involved YouTube! Home Vision, Assistive Devices, and Experimental Robotics Laboratory Welcome to the VADER Laboratory at Lehigh University ! Founded in September 2003 by Prof. John Spletzer , the lab serves as an inter-disciplinary research center focused on advancing the use of field and service robots in real-world environments. Based in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering in the P.C. Rossin College of Engineering and Applied Science (RCEAS) , the laboratory welcomes students with backgrounds stemming from a multitude of disciplines. These include but are by no means limited to: Computer Science and Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Electrical Engineering. Feel free to browse our pages. If you have any questions or comments, please email these to vaderlab@gmail.com . Whats new ? 22 August 2016: Lab Research Presented at CASE 2016 Dylan Schwesinger presented our work on infrastructure free localization for AGVs at CASE 2016 . 27 July 2016: Dr. Schwesinger, I Presume Congratulations to Dylan Schwesinger on successfully defending his dissertation today. 13-15 July 2016: Robotic Course at SEI Our lab instructed the Robotics & Programming short course at the Lehigh Summer Engineering Institute (SEI) . 23 May 2016: Congratulations Graduates! Congratulations to Jack Keller who completed his Masters degree in Computer Science this Spring. 22 May 2016: Lab Welcomes Smart Spaces REU Students REU researchers Jeff Bulick (Lehigh), Y Nguyen (San Jose State), and Josh Wolper (Swarthmore College) will be working in the VADER Laboratory this summer as part of the NSF CISE Smart Spaces REU Site . 1 May 2016: NSF Grant for AGV-3D Project Our AGV-3D project to develop natural feature-based localization for large-scale warehouse environments has been funded by NSF. You can find more details in the award abstract . more news VADER lab YouTube Create a website or blog at WordPress.com Follow VADER lab Customize Follow Sign up Log in Copy shortlink Report this content Manage subscriptions Collapse this bar 
