 Dr. Prabhakar T.V Home Publications Projects Teaching SESRes Lab Contact Me Professor Department of Computer Science and Engineering Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur Kanpur(U.P.) 208016, India Email: tvp@iitk.ac.in About Me Interested in building systems and is still excited about science and technology. I have worked in multiple areas like Databases, Logic Programming, User Interface Design, Internet Technologies, Software Architecture, Knowledge Modeling, Indian Language Technologies. I have worked with CMC R&D, Satyam Computer Services and have been a consultant to a large number of IT organizations and e-governance initiatives. My hobbies are bird watching, and playing with my daughter.> Quick Links mooKIT, The MOOC Management System Agropedia: Indian Agriculture Portal MOOC on Mobiles for Development Architecting Software For The Cloud Software Engineering & Sysetem Research GitaSuperSite: Multilingual Bhagavadgita with translations DBLP: Computer Science Bibliography IITK Academia.edu: Researchers' Social Networking Image Gallery IIT Kanpur Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur carries out original research of significance and technology development at the cutting edge. It imparts training for students to make them competent, motivated engineers and scientists. The Institute not only celebrates freedom of thought, cultivates vision and encourages growth, but also inculcates human values and concern for the environment and the society. CSE Department Computer Science and Engineering Department Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur was the first Institute in India to start Computer Science education with the initial "computer-related" courses starting in August 1963 on an IBM 1620 system installed in the nation's first "computer classroom". The department continues to lead the nation in terms of excellence in research and teaching in Computer Science and Engineering. Computer Science and Engineering Department Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur 
