 Robert Muller I am an Associate Professor of Computer Science at Boston College . If you would like to discuss something related to my teaching or research, please contact me . My research is related to the reliabilty and performance of computer software. I worked on high-performance certifying compilers for higher-order typed programming languages such as Standard ML. I spent several years working as a founding member of the Church Project . Together with Robert Harper , I was a co-founder of the Types in Compilation (TIC) series of workshops. The TIC workshop series subsequently evolved into its current form: Types in Language Design and Implementation (TLDI) . Most of my earlier papers can be found here . I teach a variety of courses in the computer science curriculum. My schedule for the spring semester of the 2018-2019 academic year has me teaching CSCI 3366 Programming Languages . My office hours are a bit complicated, falling into three categories. I hold class office hours for students presently enrolled in my courses Mondays 1:30PM - 3:30PM and Tuesdays 10AM - noon. If you are not enrolled in one of my courses, you can see me during those hours but students presently enrolled in courses have priority. This means that you'll have to wait for an opening during those hours. I hold a CS Undergraduate Program Director office hour on Mondays between 3:30PM and 5PM. If you need to see me about Study Abroad or other issues unrelated to my courses, you can sign up for an appointment here . This weekly office hour is appointment only. If you are one of my CS Major Academic Advisees and you need to see me about course planning for the upcoming semester, you'll find an active make-an-appointment link here before registration begins. Otherwise my CS Major Academic Advisees can email me to make an appointment or see me during my class office hours, but students enrolled in current classes have priority. Thinking of asking me for a letter of recommendation? I may be able to help, but please read this first . Last modified on 2-1-2017. 
