 Anima Anandkumar Bio Publications Software Technical Talks Media Blogs Teaching Contact Group Animashree Anandkumar Bren Professor Microsoft and Sloan Fellow Computing + Mathematical Sciences California Institute of Technology Contact Email: anima * caltech.edu Admin: Pamela S. Albertson Please cc Pamela(psa@its.caltech.edu) for appointments . Computing + Mathematical Sciences California Institute of Technology 316 Annenberg Hall 1200 E California Blvd. MC 305-16, Pasadena, CA 91125 Bio Animashree (Anima) Anandkumar is a Bren professor at Caltech CMS department and a director of machine learning research at NVIDIA. Her research spans both theoretical and practical aspects of machine learning. In particular, she has spearheaded research in tensor-algebraic methods, large-scale learning, deep learning, probabilistic models, and non-convex optimization. Anima is the recipient of several awards such as the Alfred. P. Sloan Fellowship, NSF Career Award, Young investigator awards from the Air Force and Army research offices, Faculty fellowships from Microsoft, Google and Adobe, and several best paper awards. She is the youngest named professor at Caltech, the highest honor bestowed to an individual faculty. She is part of the World Economic Forum's Expert Network consisting of leading experts from academia, business, government, and the media. She has been featured in documentaries by PBS, KPCC, wired magazine, and in articles by MIT Technology review, Forbes, Yourstory, OReilly media, and so on. Anima received her B.Tech in Electrical Engineering from IIT Madras in 2004 and her PhD from Cornell University in 2009. She was a postdoctoral researcher at MIT from 2009 to 2010, visiting researcher at Microsoft Research New England in 2012 and 2014, assistant professor at U.C. Irvine between 2010 and 2016, associate professor at U.C. Irvine between 2016 and 2017, and principal scientist at Amazon Web Services between 2016 and 2018. Full CV For Prospective Students and Postdocs We are looking for highly motivated and self-driven PhD students and postdoctoral candidates with strong foundation in machine learning, statistics, and algorithms. Both theoretical and empirical research is carried out in the group and students who can build bridges between the two, and also between different disciplines will be good fit here. There are also a small number of positions for undergraduate research. Selected Publications Tensor Decompositions for Learning Latent Variable Models, JMLR, 2014. pdf signSGD: compressed optimisation for non-convex problems, ICML, 2018. pdf Combining Symbolic Expressions and Black-Box Function Evaluations In Neural Programs, ICLR 2018. pdf Learning From Noisy Singly-labeled Data, ICLR 2018. pdf Complete list of publications Media Features Tensor Operations for Machine Learning with Anima Anandkumar, TWiML&AI Podcast, 2018. url Story of Anima Anandkumar, the machine learning guru powering Amazon AI, YourStory, 2017 url Teaching Machines How to Learn: An Interview with Animashree Anandkumar, Caltech, 2017 url All media stories and interviews/panels Teaching Winter 2019 Foundations of Machine Learning All teaching courses Software TensorLy : A fast and simple Python library for tensor learning. https://tensorly.github.io/ Gluon : a high-level interface for MXNet designed to be easy to use while keeping most of the flexibility of low-level API. It supports both imperative and symbolic programming. https://mxnet.incubator.apache.org/api/python/gluon.html Spectral LDA on Spark : learning LDA model via tensor decomposition. https://github.com/Mega-DatA-Lab/SpectralLDA-Spark Technical Talks Tackling Data Scarcity in Deep Learning, UAI 2018. slides1 slides2 Trinity of AI: data, algorithms and cloud, 2018. slides TensoLy, IfI Summer School 2018 on Machine Learning, 2018, contributor: Jean Kossaifi. slides MXNet and Gluon: notebooks for teaching Deep Learning, Apache MXNet and the Gluon interface. http://gluon.mxnet.io Tensor Methods, Machine Learning Summer School 2014 , Pittsburgh. youtube 1 youtube 2 youtube 3 slides 1 slides 2 slides 3 Complete list of talks Tweets by AnimaAnandkumar 
