 Skip to main content Division of Engineering & Applied Science Positions Available search search options CMS Caltech Department of Computing + Mathematical Sciences About Overview Mission History + Facts Facilities Life in the Department Location + Directions Positions Available Resources People Faculty Administration Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Directory Academics Overview Graduate Programs Undergraduate Program Course Descriptions Course Schedule Honors and Awards Research Overview Centers + Initiatives Research Videos Meeting of the Minds Seminars & Events News Outreach Public Outreach Local Outreach Partners Program Contact Contact Us Location + Directions Directory Get Involved Women in CMS Faculty Katherine L. (Katie) Bouman Visiting Associate in Computing and Mathematical Sciences Degrees and Appointments B.S., University of Michigan, 2011; M.S., Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2013; Ph.D., 2017. Caltech, 2018-19. Research Overview Katie Bouman's research focuses on computational imaging: designing systems that tightly integrate algorithm and sensor design, making it possible to observe phenomena previously difficult or impossible to measure with traditional approaches.Imaging plays a critical role in advancing science. However, as science continues to push boundaries, traditional sensors are reaching the limits of what they can measure.Katie's group combines ideas from signal processing, computer vision, machine learning, and physics to find and exploit hidden signals for both scientific discovery and technological innovation. For example, in collaboration with the Event Horizon Telescope, Katie's group is helping to build a computational earth-sized telescope that is taking the first images of a black hole and is analyzing its images to learn about general relativity in the strong-field regime. Is this your profile? People Faculty Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Directory Learn More Research Academics Visiting Contact Get Involved For Students How to Apply Course Catalog Course Schedule Life in the Department For Our Department Resources Positions Available Communications Office California Institute of Technology 1200 E California Blvd. MC 305-16, Pasadena, CA 91125 2019 Caltech . All rights reserved . Privacy Notice . Feedback? back to top 
