 Venkat Chandrasekaran Professor Computing and Mathematical Sciences & Electrical Engineering California Institute of Technology Email: alpha @ beta .edu ( alpha = venkatc; beta = caltech) Projects Papers Students Teaching Travel Bio Contact Research Interests My research interests broadly lie in mathematical optimization and its interface with topics in the information sciences. Specific areas of interest include convex optimization, mathematical signal processing, graphs and combinatorial optimization, applied algebraic geometry, computational harmonic analysis , and statistical inference. A list of research projects in which I'm currently engaged can be found here and a full list of publications can be found here . Some Representative Papers Y. S. Soh and V. Chandrasekaran, A Matrix Factorization Approach for Learning Semidefinite-Representable Regularizers , preprint. A. Taeb, J. T. Reager, M. Turmon, and V. Chandrasekaran, A Statistical Graphical Model of the California Reservoir System , Water Resources Research , accepted. U. Candogan and V. Chandrasekaran, Finding Planted Subgraphs with Few Eigenvalues using the Schur-Horn Relaxation , SIAM Journal on Optimization , accepted. V. Chandrasekaran and P. Shah, Relative Entropy Optimization and its Applications , Mathematical Programming , Vol. 161, No. 1, January 2017. N. Matni and V. Chandrasekaran, Regularization for Design , IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control , Vol. 61, No. 12, December 2016. V. Chandrasekaran and P. Shah, Relative Entropy Relaxations for Signomial Optimization , SIAM Journal on Optimization , Vol. 26, No. 2, May 2016. V. Chandrasekaran and M. I. Jordan, Computational and Statistical Tradeoffs via Convex Relaxation , Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , Vol. 110, No. 13, March 2013. V. Chandrasekaran, B. Recht, P. A. Parrilo, and A. S. Willsky, The Convex Geometry of Linear Inverse Problems , Foundations of Computational Mathematics , Vol. 12, No. 6, December 2012. V. Chandrasekaran, P. A. Parrilo, and A. S. Willsky, Latent Variable Graphical Model Selection via Convex Optimization , Annals of Statistics (with discussion), Vol. 40, No. 4, August 2012. ( software ) V. Chandrasekaran, S. Sanghavi, P. A. Parrilo, and A. S. Willsky, Rank-Sparsity Incoherence for Matrix Decomposition , SIAM Journal on Optimization , Vol. 21, No. 2, June 2011. Last updated: November 2017 
