 Mathieu Desbrun circa 2003, photo by Santiago Lombeyda Carl F. Braun Professor in Computing & Mathematical Sciences mathieu*-at-*caltech.edu Dept of Computing & Mathematical Sciences MS 305-16 California Institute of Technology 1200 E. California Boulevard Pasadena, CA 91125 Tel : (626) 395 6230 Fax : (626) 792 4257 Assistant: Sheila Shull, sheila_at_cms.caltech.edu , (626) 395 4560 Head of the Applied Geometry lab Our lab focuses on applying discrete differential geometry to a wide range of fields and applications. In particular, we approach computations from a geometric standpoint in order to provide differential, yet readily- discretizable computational foundations. Our efforts include: Discrete Exterior Calculus : providing the means to handle basic computations without violating the symmetries and invariants that differential modeling leverages for predictive purposes. Simulation techniques : from Computational Fluid Dynamics (variational methods for fluid dynamics) to Discrete Elasticity (thin shells and deformable objects), etc. Meshing : 2D and 3D sampling, meshing, and remeshing for accurate simulations. Graphics : surface modeling via mesh processing, compression, animation, etc Current members: Dzhelil Rufat, Melissa Yeung, Max Budninskiy, Beibei Liu. Founding chair of Computing + Mathematical Sciences department The Computing + Mathematical Sciences (CMS) department is home to outstanding students and researchers who share a passion for science and engineering, as well as a drive to investigate the most challenging, fundamental problems in computation. We cover applied mathematics, control & dynamical systems, and computer science. Research Community Involvement, Past and Present Former Technical Papers chair, ACM SIGGRAPH 2018; director of the Information Science & Technology initiative at Caltech; associate Editor of the ACM Transaction on Graphics journal; program committee member for the ACM SIGGRAPH conference and other international symposia; chair of the Symposium of Computer Animation and the Symposium on Geometry Processing ; review panelist for NSF and DOE programs; reviewers in various computational science and computer science journals. Collaborations Our current collaborators include: Jin Huang Pierre Alliez Yiying Tong Fernando de Goes Santiago Lombeyda Other past and present collaborators include: Eva Kanso Jerrold E. Marsden Peter Schrder Alan H. Barr Eitan Grinspun Sponsors We wish to acknowledge the generous and constant support of: The Carl F. Braun chair endowment at Caltech Federal funding: National Science Foundation , Department of Energy . Funding from Foundations: Okawa Foundation , Gordon & Betty Moore Foundation . Corporate funding: Pixar Animation Studios , Disney Animation Studios , NVidia , Microsoft Research . We also acknowledge the INRIA for an International Chair in the TITANE group (2014-2019). 
