 Skip to main content Division of Engineering & Applied Science Positions Available search search options CMS Caltech Department of Computing + Mathematical Sciences About Overview Mission History + Facts Facilities Life in the Department Location + Directions Positions Available Resources People Faculty Administration Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Directory Academics Overview Graduate Programs Undergraduate Program Course Descriptions Course Schedule Honors and Awards Research Overview Centers + Initiatives Research Videos Meeting of the Minds Seminars & Events News Outreach Public Outreach Local Outreach Partners Program Contact Contact Us Location + Directions Directory Get Involved Women in CMS Faculty Peter Schroeder Shaler Arthur Hanisch Professor of Computer Science and Applied and Computational Mathematics Degrees and Appointments B.S., Technical University of Berlin, 1987; M.S., Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1990; M.A., Princeton University, 1992; Ph.D., 1994. Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Caltech, 1995-98; Associate Professor, 1998-2000; Associate Professor of Computer Science and Applied and Computational Mathematics, 2000-01; Professor, 2001-13; Hanisch Professor, 2013-; Division Deputy Chair, 2012-15; Acting Director of the Center for Advanced Computing Research, 2013-14. Assistant(s) Research Group Matters Linda Taddeo 343 Annenberg IST Center (626) 395-6704 ltaddeo@caltech.edu Research Overview Professor Schrder is interested in the design of efficient and reliable algorithms for problems in computer graphics. These range from geometric modeling (effective methods to model the shape of objects) to animation (simulation of physical phenomena such as the deformation of cloth). His emphasis is on an area known as "Discrete Differential Geometry." Its goals are to rebuild the foundations of classical differential geometry in a discrete setting which makes it immediately useful for computation. List of Research Areas Numerical algorithms for computer graphics, geometric modeling, physical modeling for computation, Discrete Differential Geometry CMS News about Peter Schroeder Professors Barr and Schrder Elected to ACM SIGGRAPH Academy Visualizing the Complex Behavior of Vortices Surrounding Hummingbird Wings Chou Doctoral Prize in IST Established Read more news about Peter Schroeder Is this your profile? People Faculty Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Directory Learn More Research Academics Visiting Contact Get Involved For Students How to Apply Course Catalog Course Schedule Life in the Department For Our Department Resources Positions Available Communications Office California Institute of Technology 1200 E California Blvd. MC 305-16, Pasadena, CA 91125 2019 Caltech . All rights reserved . Privacy Notice . Feedback? back to top 
