 Skip to main content Division of Engineering & Applied Science Positions Available search search options CMS Caltech Department of Computing + Mathematical Sciences About Overview Mission History + Facts Facilities Life in the Department Location + Directions Positions Available Resources People Faculty Administration Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Directory Academics Overview Graduate Programs Undergraduate Program Course Descriptions Course Schedule Honors and Awards Research Overview Centers + Initiatives Research Videos Meeting of the Minds Seminars & Events News Outreach Public Outreach Local Outreach Partners Program Contact Contact Us Location + Directions Directory Get Involved Women in CMS Faculty Fernando Brandao Bren Professor of Theoretical Physics Degrees and Appointments B.Sc., Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, 2004; M.Sc., 2005; Ph.D. Imperial College London, 2008. Bren Professor, Caltech, 2016-. Research Overview Fernando Brando's research is focused on quantum information science. He explores the interplay of physics, computer science and mathematics to study the role of quantum mechanics in computation and information transmission. He is also interested in the application of tools and concepts of quantum information to other branches of science, such as quantum many-body theory, complexity theory and thermodynamics/statistical mechanics. In recent years he has been exploring several directions in entanglement theory, from understanding the relation between entanglement and other physical properties (such as correlation length) in quantum many-body systems, to developing a sharper understanding of fundamental properties of entanglement such as its monogamous character (with applications in quantum cryptography, quantum Hamiltonian complexity, and even in convex optimisation). CMS News about Fernando Brandao Erika Ye Wins 2018 Google PhD Fellowship Designing Computer Software of the Future The Power of Entanglement Read more news about Fernando Brandao Is this your profile? People Faculty Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Directory Learn More Research Academics Visiting Contact Get Involved For Students How to Apply Course Catalog Course Schedule Life in the Department For Our Department Resources Positions Available Communications Office California Institute of Technology 1200 E California Blvd. MC 305-16, Pasadena, CA 91125 2019 Caltech . All rights reserved . Privacy Notice . Feedback? back to top 
