 Skip to main content Division of Engineering & Applied Science Positions Available search search options CMS Caltech Department of Computing + Mathematical Sciences About Overview Mission History + Facts Facilities Life in the Department Location + Directions Positions Available Resources People Faculty Administration Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Directory Academics Overview Graduate Programs Undergraduate Program Course Descriptions Course Schedule Honors and Awards Research Overview Centers + Initiatives Research Videos Meeting of the Minds Seminars & Events News Outreach Public Outreach Local Outreach Partners Program Contact Contact Us Location + Directions Directory Get Involved Women in CMS Faculty Alexei Kitaev Ronald and Maxine Linde Professor of Theoretical Physics and Mathematics Degrees and Appointments Dipl., Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, 1986; Ph.D., Landau Institute for Theoretical Physics, 1989. Visiting Associate, Caltech, 1998-99; Lecturer, 1998-99; Senior Research Associate, 2001-02; Professor, 2002-13; Linde Professor, 2013-. Research Overview Professor Kitaev works in the field of quantum computation and related areas of theoretical physics. His main contribution was the concept of topological quantum computation, a scheme where quantum information is protected from errors due to special properties of the underlying physical system, which are generally related to topology. He currently focuses on topological classification of quantum phases (a nontrivial example being the 2-dimensional electron liquid in the quantum Hall regime). List of Research Areas quantum computation, topological quantum phases, anyons, topological insulators and superconductors CMS News about Alexei Kitaev Professor Kitaev Receives $3M Fundamental Physics Prize Alexei Kitaev Named a MacArthur Fellow Read more news about Alexei Kitaev Is this your profile? People Faculty Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Directory Learn More Research Academics Visiting Contact Get Involved For Students How to Apply Course Catalog Course Schedule Life in the Department For Our Department Resources Positions Available Communications Office California Institute of Technology 1200 E California Blvd. MC 305-16, Pasadena, CA 91125 2019 Caltech . All rights reserved . Privacy Notice . Feedback? back to top 
