 Skip to main content Division of Engineering & Applied Science Positions Available search search options CMS Caltech Department of Computing + Mathematical Sciences About Overview Mission History + Facts Facilities Life in the Department Location + Directions Positions Available Resources People Faculty Administration Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Directory Academics Overview Graduate Programs Undergraduate Program Course Descriptions Course Schedule Honors and Awards Research Overview Centers + Initiatives Research Videos Meeting of the Minds Seminars & Events News Outreach Public Outreach Local Outreach Partners Program Contact Contact Us Location + Directions Directory Get Involved Women in CMS Faculty Beverley J. McKeon Theodore von Karman Professor of Aeronautics Degrees and Appointments B.A., University of Cambridge, 1995; M.Eng.,1996; M.A. (Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering); M.A. (Engineering), Princeton University, 1999; Ph.D., 2003. Assistant Professor, Caltech, 2006-11; Professor, 2011-17; von Karman Professor, 2017-; Associate Director, 2012-17. Assistant(s) Research Group Matters Denise Ruiz G365 Guggenheim Lab (626) 395-4426 druiz@caltech.edu Research Group Website Research Overview Professor McKeon explores new ways to manipulate or control the boundary layerthe thin layer between a material and flowing airto improve flow characteristics, such as a reduction of drag, noise, and structural loading or expansion of vehicle performance envelopes during travel. The unifying theme to her work is an experimental and theoretical approach at the intersection of fluid mechanics, control, and materials science to investigate fundamental flow questions, address efficiency and performance challenges in aerospace vehicle design, and respond to the energy conservation imperative in novel and efficient ways. Specific interests include: Modeling and control of wall-bounded flows using smart, morphing surfaces. Resolvent analysis as a tool for modeling turbulent, transitional and controlled flows; rigorous, system-level tools for understanding flow physics and design of flow control schemes. Assimilation of experimental data for efficient low-order flow modeling. Measurement, definition and description of high Reynolds number wall turbulence. Interdisciplinary approaches to experimental flow manipulation for performance enhancement and understanding of fundamental flow physics; application of new materials to flow control. List of Research Areas Fluid mechanics, turbulent boundary layers, flow control, morphing surfaces, resolvent analysis for reduced order mdoeling, data assimilation for unsteady flows, measurement techniques CMS News about Beverley J. McKeon John Dabiri, Beverley McKeon, and Joel Tropp Recieve PECASE Awards President Obama Presents Three EAS Faculty with the PECASE Read more news about Beverley J. McKeon Is this your profile? People Faculty Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Directory Learn More Research Academics Visiting Contact Get Involved For Students How to Apply Course Catalog Course Schedule Life in the Department For Our Department Resources Positions Available Communications Office California Institute of Technology 1200 E California Blvd. MC 305-16, Pasadena, CA 91125 2019 Caltech . All rights reserved . Privacy Notice . Feedback? back to top 
