 Home Research Publications Data Sets Courses People Pietro Perona Allen E. Puckett Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computation and Neural Systems. Director of the National Science Foundation Engineering Research Center in Neuromorphic Systems Engineering Bio : Dr. Pietro Perona is the Allen E. Puckett Professor of Electrical Engineering at Caltech. He directs Computation and Neural Systems (www.cns.caltech.edu), a PhD program centered on the study of biological brains and intelligent machines. Professor Perona's research centers on vision. He has contributed to the theory of partial differential equations for image processing and boundary formation, and to modeling the early visual system's function. He is currently interested in visual categories and visual recognition. Research Group: Computational Vision Laboratory Research interests : Computer vision: Recognition, Navigation, Human-Computer interfaces, Texture analysis, Multiresolution image analysis, Diffusions. Human vision: Perception of shape-from-shading, perception of texture. Models of early vision. Contact: phone: 626.395.2084 office: 104 Moore address: 1200 E. California Blvd. mail code: 136-93 Research Projects Selected Publications Classes : Fall - CNS 187, Neural Computation Winter - CNS 186, Introduction to Vision Spring - EE/CS/CNS 148b, Advanced Topics in Computer Vision Information for prospective post-docs and graduate students Advising students in the following PhD programs : Electrical Engineering Computation and Neural Systems Computer Science Control and Dynamical Systems Computing and Mathematical Sciences Reaching me by email : Email is the best way to reach me; unfortunately, I am not terribly efficient in reading all the email I receive. Sometimes you do not need to reach me directly: for scheduling appointments and time-sensitive issues mail to assistant@vision.caltech.edu for direct communication use perona@caltech.edu. Please summarize the main points of your message in the first paragraph. I only pay attention to the first few lines of each message, so it is best to send separate messages with appropriate titles if you wish to communicate on independent topics. for matters related to the NSF Engineering Research Center mail to director@erc.caltech.edu prospective graduate students please read our 'contact' page 2011 California Institute of Technology Caltech | Electrical Engineering | Computation and Neural Systems | Related Links at Caltech top 
