 John Preskill Richard P. Feynman Professor of Theoretical Physics Division of Physics, Mathematics, and Astronomy California Institute of Technology Curriculum Vitae , publication list , and biographical sketch Home Page for Physics 219 , a course on quantum computation. Home Page for Physics 12c , a course on statistical physics. Field Theory Lecture Notes . The Institute for Quantum Information and Matter . IQIM Blog: Quantum Frontiers . My posts . Follow me on Twitter . The Caltech Particle Theory Home Page . My Students : Where are they now? 60 th Birthday . Workshop on Quantum Information Science , April 23-25, 2009. Workshop Report . I am a theoretical physicist. Topics I have worked on in the past include the connections between particle physics and cosmology, properties of topological defects, nonperturbative phenomena in quantum field theory, and quantum aspects of the early universe and of black holes. For several years, my central interest has been in the theory of quantum information, quantum computing, and quantum error correction. Broadly speaking, quantum information science addresses how the principles of quantum physics can be harnessed to improve the acquisition, transmission, and processing of information. A quantum computer would be a new type of machine that, by exploiting the unusual quantum properties of information, could perform certain types of calculations far more efficiently than any foreseeable classical computer. I'm particularly interested in developing new schemes for protecting intricate quantum systems from decoherence and other sources of error. Here is a 6-minute animated introduction to the subject. For further information about quantum computation, and other useful links, see the Physics 219 home page . In 2000 I founded the Institute for Quantum Information (IQI), as part of the initiative in Information Technology Research launched by the National Science Foundation . In 2011 the IQI become a part of the Institute for Quantum Information and Matter (IQIM), an NSF Physics Frontiers Center with support from the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation . Contact Information: Caltech 305-16 Pasadena, CA 91125 email: preskill@theory.caltech.edu Office: 206 Annenberg Phone: 626-395-6691 Papers and Talks: Some of my publications can be found on the electronic ArXiv . Another useful list of my publications can be found on google scholar . Here is a complete publication list , with links to most of the articles. Here are some recent talks I have given. Stability, topology, holography: The many facets of quantum error correction (APS March Meeting, 2016) Quantum information and spacetime (GR100, 2016) Our quantum future ( SQuInT , 2016) Quantum is different: Part 1 , Part 2 ( One Entangled Evening , 2016) Is spacetime a quantum error-correcting code? (KITP, 2015) Grand challenges at the interface of quantum information science, particle physics, and computing (HEPAP, 2015) Quantum information and black holes (MIT, 2014) Emergent Quantum Mechanics (Breakthrough Prize Symposium, 2014) Protected qubits for superconducting circuits (KITP, 2013) A one-hour public lecture on quantum information (Caltech, 2013) Introduction to Quantum Information , two one-hour lectures (2012) Quantum error correction and fault tolerance (2012) Quantum computing and the entanglement frontier (Solvay Conference on Physics, 2011) Below are a few papers that are not readily available elsewhere on the Internet. Some are transcripts of informal talks I have given. My commentary on the 2004 Nobel Prize in Physics 5 October 2004 Foreword to The Feynman Lectures on Gravitation (with Kip Thorne) -- May 1995 A colloquium on black holes and the information paradox. -- 21 November 1994 A colloquium on the non-abelian Aharonov -Bohm effect. -- 15 April 1993 Teaching: Information about Physics 219 , a course about quantum information and computation. Field Theory Lecture Notes , from Ph 230, Ph236, Ph 205 Information about Physics 230 , a course about elementary particle theory. Information about Physics 106 , a course about classical mechanics. Information about Physics 12b , a course about quantum physics. Information about Physics 12c , a course about statistical physics. Betting: I was once briefly almost famous for winning a bet . Alas, this only encouraged me to make more bets. Details are on the black hole bets page . Update (24 July 2004): My comments about Stephen Hawkings concession . Other Stuff: Ten Physics Problems for the Next Millennium (selected at Strings 2000) Millennium Prize Problems in Mathematics (from the Clay Mathematics Institute) Words of Wisdom: All I really need to know by David P. Stern . Physics Colloquium Poems: Erik Winfree , Craig Hogan , Hirosi Ooguri , John Schwarz, Quantum Cryptography, Spin is In , arXiv.org, Lene Hau , Lets Play CA! , On Quantum Compression , Leon Balents , Eddie Farhi , Jeff Kimble Singing One Entangled Evening with: Gia Mora (Caltech, 2016), Robin Selinger (APS March Meeting, 2016) A-hats Team Song (Caltech quantum optics softball team) My Dog (photo and poem) My New Dog (photo) CPI (poem) 
