 Adam Blank Lecturer, Department of Computing and Mathematical Sciences @ Caltech Office: Annenberg 115 E-mail: blank@caltech.edu Phone: (626) 395-1765 About Me My name is Adam Blank , and I am a Lecturer in the Department of Computing and Mathematical Sciences at Caltech . I am interested in the teaching and practice of Computer Science. My teaching drives everything that I do, and I love to try new techniques to help students learn in my courses. My research involves using technology , machine learning , human computation , and collaboration to improve the way that we teach computer scientists at the collegiate level. As of January 2018, here's my teaching statement and CV . I can be reached via e-mail at blank@caltech.edu. Meeting with Me Feel free to stop in whenever my door is open; I'm happy to meet with students whenever I have free time. When requesting a private meeting with me, please make sure to explain in as much detail as possible why you are requesting it. I'll do my best to accommodate as many students as I can, but it's important for me to remember why I'm meeting with you. If you are currently (or previously) in one of my courses, and you would like to discuss anything (the course, advice, life, well-being), please use this website . If you would like to meet with me to discuss working with me on one of my (or your!) projects, please use this website . If you would like to meet with me to request a recommendation, please read this website . Documents LaTeX Tutorial (and the accompanying homework template ). Many of the courses I've worked on have required that students submit their solutions using LaTeX; so, I wrote a short tutorial which also acts as a LaTeX reference. Advice for new TAs . Back when I was TAing, I found that many first-time TAs had no idea what to expect. I've been told this document has helped some people. It offers advice for new TAs who want an idea of what pitfalls to avoid. How to ask for help . I've found a really common issue for freshmen is that they get stuck for the very first time, and they aren't sure how to get help. This document outlines ways in which students can turn "getting stuck on homework" into a positive experience. Research I am currently working on semi-automating proof grading by making an online proof editor which can be used to collapse equivalence classes of proofs together. I am also working on a visualizer for introductory Java programming courses that demonstrates recursion and references effectively. You can install the prototype using the eclipse install link: http://www.countablethoughts.com/eclipse-viz/site.xml Office Hours Monday: 4:00pm 5:00pm Wednesday: 3:00pm 4:00pm Thursdaay: 5:00pm 7:00pm Courses (+) Fall 2018 (Caltech) CS 37: Algorithms in the Real World ( Instructor ) CS 9: Introduction to Computer Science Research ( Co-Instructor ) Spring 2018 (UW) CSE 312: Foundations of Computing II ( Instructor ) Winter 2018 (UW) CSE 373: Data Structures and Algorithms ( Mentor/Co-instructor ) CSE 390P: Problem Solving with Programming ( Instructor ) Autumn 2017 (UW) CSE 311: Foundations of Computing I ( Instructor ) 
