 Franca Hoffmann's Homepage Postgraduate Researcher Menu Skip to content Home Curriculum Vitae Research Publications Talks Academic Visits More Research Projects Conferences, Workshops, SummerSchools Collaborators Memberships Teaching Beyond mathematics Blog Contact me About I am a Von Karman Postdoctoral Instructor in Applied and Computational Mathematics at the Department of Computing and Mathematical Sciences , California Institute of Technology (Caltech) in Pasadena, USA. In July 2017, I completed my PhD at the Cambridge Centre for Analysis (CCA) Doctoral Training Centre, University of Cambridge and Imperial College London , under the supervision ofProf. Jos A. Carrillo and Prof. Clment Mouhot . A copy of my thesis can be downloaded here . Im honoured to have received the 2016 Imperial College Outstanding Student Achievement Award. Have a look here for a short video about some of my research to a non-mathematical audience, presented at the finals of the 3-Minute-Thesis Competition 2016, Imperial College London. For a one hour seminar about my PhD research, click here . For more details about my research, have a look here . Updates As part of International Education Week, Im giving a talk A mathematical journey through Africa, sharing experiences and insights from my participation in math and science outreach initiatives in Africa over the past few years. I have been invited as a guest speaker at Caltechs Women Mentoring Wome n Program. Caltech Campus, picture taken on my day of arrival at this beautiful place. Advertisements Leave a comment Cancel reply Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: Email (required) (Address never made public) Name (required) Website You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( LogOut / Change ) You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( LogOut / Change ) You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( LogOut / Change ) You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( LogOut / Change ) Cancel Connecting to %s Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email. Blog at WordPress.com. Post to Cancel Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy Follow Franca Hoffmann's Homepage Customize Follow Sign up Log in Copy shortlink Report this content Manage subscriptions Collapse this bar 
