 Skip to main content Division of Engineering & Applied Science Positions Available search search options CMS Caltech Department of Computing + Mathematical Sciences About Overview Mission History + Facts Facilities Life in the Department Location + Directions Positions Available Resources People Faculty Administration Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Directory Academics Overview Graduate Programs Undergraduate Program Course Descriptions Course Schedule Honors and Awards Research Overview Centers + Initiatives Research Videos Meeting of the Minds Seminars & Events News Outreach Public Outreach Local Outreach Partners Program Contact Contact Us Location + Directions Directory Get Involved Women in CMS Faculty Kanianthra M. (Mani) Chandy Simon Ramo Professor of Computer Science, Emeritus Degrees and Appointments B.Tech., Indian Institute of Technology, 1965; M.S., Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, 1966; Ph.D., Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1969. Sherman Fairchild Distinguished Scholar, Caltech, 1988; Visiting Professor, 1988-89; Professor, 1989-97; Ramo Professor, 1997-2014; Ramo Professor, Emeritus, 2014-. Executive Officer for Computer Science, 1997-2000; Deputy Chair, 2009-12. Assistant(s) Research Group Matters Diane Goodfellow 246 Annenberg IST Center (626) 395-6842 diane@cs.caltech.edu Research Group Website Personal Website Research Overview Professor Chandy builds and analyzes systems that sense and respond to changes. He is currently working on systems that sense and respond to: (a) seismic events, (b) threat events such as the introduction of nuclear radiation material, (c) medical events such a fetal distress, and (d) events in the power grid. The systems use sensor networks, cloud computing and event-driven architecture. The theory is based on optimization, control, machine learning and game theory. List of Research Areas distributed systems, verification and validation of concurrent systems, software packages for analyzing streams of data. CMS News about Kanianthra M. (Mani) Chandy Professor Chandy Receives Harry H. Goode Memorial Award Professor Chandy's Paper Wins Edsger W. Dijkstra Prize in Distributed Computing Professor Chandy's Paper Wins Hall of Fame Award Read more news about Kanianthra M. (Mani) Chandy Is this your profile? People Faculty Visitors Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Students Directory Learn More Research Academics Visiting Contact Get Involved For Students How to Apply Course Catalog Course Schedule Life in the Department For Our Department Resources Positions Available Communications Office California Institute of Technology 1200 E California Blvd. MC 305-16, Pasadena, CA 91125 2019 Caltech . All rights reserved . Privacy Notice . Feedback? back to top 
