 Education PhD in Computer Science, University of Massachusetts, Lowell MS in Computer Science, University of Massachusetts, Lowell BS in Electrical Engineering, Universidad Metropolitana, Caracas, Venezuela Biography ProfessorJose Annunziato is an experienced software engineer with over seventeen years of experience in the software development industry. He has over fifteen years of experience in teaching graduate computer science courses at universities in the Boston area. Prof. Annunziato earned his MS and PhDin Computer Science from the University of Massachusetts, Lowell. Hometown Dunstable, MA Field of research/teaching Web Development What is your educational background? I received a BS in Electrical Engineering at in Universidad Metropolitana in Caracas, Venezuela, as well as a MS and a PhD in Computer Science at UMass Lowell. What is your research focus? I am exploring tools with students to bring programming to the masses by building tools for the casual programmer, such as those who want to create simple applications which do not need a dedicated software engineer. What courses/subjects do you teach? CS5610 CS4550 CS3200 CS1500 What do you enjoy most or find most rewarding about what you teach? I love to dispel myths and stereotypes about technology. I like to show how easy and accessible computer science is and how to create practical solutions to complex problems. I love to see students faces when they understand a topic and realize that it is not as hard as they thought it was. I enjoy sharing real life experiences and anecdotes with students stories from the front line which prepare them for real world working environments. Through these examples, I share the kinds of interactions and expectations other team mates may have. Where did you grow up or spend your most defining years? I grew up in Caracas, Venezuela and New York City, with extended family in Italy. I returned to Venezuela for university, and my Italian, Venezuelan, and New York backgrounds give me exposure to different cultures. Where did you study? I studied in Caracas, Venezuela and Lowell, Massachusetts. What are the specifics of your industry experience? I have ten years of experience with server side web development in the industries of defense, telecommunications, and finance, as well as seven years in front end web development for content management, publishing, education, and healthcare. Prior to web development, I worked for three years in electrical engineering for automated manufacturing. : 
