 Research Interests Artificial intelligence Machine learning Education PhD in Computer Science and Engineering, University of Michigan MS in Computer Science and Engineering, University of Michigan BS in Computer Science, North Carolina State University Biography Nate Derbinskys research interests combine artificial intelligence, optimization, machine learning, and database systems. He recently helped invent the Boundary Forest Algorithm, an online instance-based approach for supervised and unsupervised learning, as well as the Three-Weight Algorithm, a general & distributed algorithm based on the Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers (ADMM) that has been effectively applied to large-scale problems in robotics, control, protein folding, and multi-dimensional packing. He also works with the Soar cognitive architecture, enabling a broad range of AI systems that are endowed with effective and efficient long-term memory. In work with undergraduates, he has created CHUCK, a robot that still needs some work, but will eventually beat its creator in a game of cornhole! Teaching is Nates passion, and developing and delivering quality CS education content is his mission. He has been involved in teaching Computer Science, in some form or other, for nearly 20 years, including at the K-12, (community) college, and graduate levels. He constantly seeks new ways to make complex CS topics accessible, and bring an increasingly diverse group to understand how fun and transformative computing can be. He has recently dipped his toes in the waters of CS education, investigating effective methods of service learning and grad-school preparation. Nate has a strong personal interest in applying technologies that scale to solve important problems in the world. In 1998 he founded BitX Solutions, a small corporation based in North Carolina. For 11 years, Nate led software-development teams to track evidence for law-enforcement agencies; manage supplies at food banks; provide diagnostic training for neurology interns; and supply comprehensive web-based fellowship/scholarship advising for thousands of students and faculty members at two universities. Nate has also served as a volunteer teacher and technology consultant for Powering Potential, an NGO that uses technology to enhance educational opportunities and outcomes in rural Tanzania. Nate joined the Wentworth Institute of Technology in 2014, where he was recently awarded the 2017 Presidents Award for Distinguished Scholarship. Prior to WIT he was a Postdoctoral Associate at Disney Research, where he specialized in large-scale optimization and machine-learning algorithms, and before that briefly worked as a Visiting Research Associate at the University of Hertfordshire, where he researched applications of cognitive architecture for scalable Human-Robotic Interaction studies. Nate earned his PhD from the Computer Science and Engineering Division at the University of Michigan where he worked in the Soar group under the supervision of John Laird. He received an M.S. in Computer Science and Engineering from the University of Michigan and a B.S. in Computer Science from North Carolina State University, where he studied as a Park Scholar. : 
