 EDUCATION PhD in Computer Science, The University of Texas at Austin MS in Computer Science, The University of Texas at Austin BS in Computer Science, University of Maryland BS in Forensic Chemistry, Ohio University BIOGRAPHY Maria Jump received her PhD in Computer Science from the University of Texas at Austin. Her main focus is educational strategies within computer science, specifically in regards to programming languages and runtime systems. Using her background from the IT industry, she assists non-computing majors in obtaining a Masters degree in CS through the Align MSCS program. She is currently working on developing techniques towards beginner programmers. Field of research/teaching Programming Languages What is your research focus? My primary passion is teaching and the study of computer science educational pedagogical strategies. This ties to my research interests lie in the area of programming languages and managed runtime systems. Specifically I am interesting in exploring how the runtime system of managed languages can be exploited to heighten program understanding. My research is currently focused on developing techniques to improve understanding of how programs use the heap and to develop techniques for identifying anomalous heap behavior particularly for novice programmers. What courses/subjects do you teach? I teach 5001, 5002, 5004, and probably more as time goes on. What do you enjoy most or find most rewarding about what you teach? I am excited to be part of the Align MSCS program. Where did you grow up or spend your most defining years? I grew up moving around mostly throughout Europe. What are the specifics of your industry experience? Before returning to school for my BSCS I worked in IT providing training and support for computer systems used by whatever company I worked for. At the end, I left my job at the Executive Office of the President to return to school full time. Between my BSCS and grad school, I worked as a Software Engineering for a startup in Austin, TX working on real-time day trading software. : 
