 Research Interests Robotic software systems (primarily autonomous mobile robotics) Computational intelligence (primarily Fuzzy Logic) Smart environments and software agents Multi-agent systems, (rule-based, knowledge-based, and model-based) Computation Traditional Artificial Intelligence (GOFAI). Education Visiting Scholar, Robotics Laboratory Computer Department, Stanford University PHD in Computer Science, University of Louisiana at Lafayette MS in Computer Science, University of Missouri-Columbia BS in Mathematics, Purdue University Biography Edward Katz is currently an Associate Teaching Professor in the M.S. Computer Science and ALIGN programsat Northeastern University Silicon Valleys College of Computer and Information Science. Previously, he was a Visiting Associate Professor in Computer Science at Loyola Marymount University for 2016-2017. Prior to LMU, he mentored Entrepreneurial Teams of MS students at Carnegie Mellon University Silicon Valley. Before mentoring CMU SV teams, he was both a Senior Systems Scientist and an Associate Professor in Software Engineering at CMU SV. Before that, he was a Senior MTS at Hewlett-Packard Laboratories. What are the specifics of your industry experience? Invited to be a Visiting Scholar at the Stanford University Computer Science Departments Robotics Laboratory, I collaborated with legendary AI Pioneer Prof. Nils J. Nilsson. One of the results was my developing the Fuzzy Teleo-Reactive extended paradigm for autonomous robot agent control, an extension of Nilssons Teleo-Reactive pioneering work. I have published technical papers in international conferences and have been awarded two US Patents. My professional memberships include Senior Member, Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), Senior Member, Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), and Senior Member, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). I currently am the 2018 IEEE Robotics and Automation Society Chapter Chair for the entire San Francisco Bay Area region. : 
