 Biography Tony Mullen received his PhD from the University of Groningen, where he worked on applying machine learning techniques to syntactic parsing of human language. He holds an MPhil in Linguistics from Trinity College, Dublin and a BA in English Literature from the University of Washington. He carried out postdoctoral research in named-entity extraction for biomedical texts at the National Institute of Informatics in Tokyo, and since 2005 has been a faculty member in CS departments, first at Tsuda College, Tokyo and then at the University of Puget Sound. His areas of research interest include statistical natural language processing, computer-assisted language learning, and computer science pedagogy. He has written several books on 3D graphics software and related subjects. Education PhD in Natural Language Processing, University of Groningen Netherlands MPhil in Linguistics, Trinity College Ireland BA in English Literature, University of Washington Hometown Vashon, WA Field of research/teaching Computer Science What is your research focus in a bit more detail? Is your current research path what you always had in mind for yourself, or has it evolved? My research has mainly been in the fields of machine learning for natural language processing and in computer-assisted language learning. In NLP, my research has focused specifically on statistical parsing, named entity recognition, and sentiment analysis. In CALL, my research has focused on the development of virtual environments to facilitate language learning. What courses/subjects do you teach? Web Development Programming Computer Graphics What do you find most rewarding about what you teach? I have taught many subjects in many environments, and to students with a wide variety of nationalities, interests, and aptitudes. Whatever their background, it is a pleasure to work with students who are curious and eager to learn. Where did you study? I did my masters degree in Ireland and my PhD in The Netherlands. I carried out postdoctoral research, and a decade of university teaching in Japan. I have always valued international experience as a means of broadening my perspective. What are the specifics of your industry experience? I have worked as a software engineer in the logistics industry in Seattle and as a software/UX designer in digital media in Tokyo. Where did you grow up/spend the most defining years of your childhood/young adulthood? I grew up in the Pacific Northwest. : 
