 Education PhD in Risk Management, MIT MS in Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, MIT BS in Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, NTUA School of Engineering Biography Professor Themis Papageorge became the director of Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Employer Relations in 2017. Professor Papageorge is responsible for developing co-op opportunities for program students, managing employer outreach on student performance and expectations, submitting grant proposals and developing collaborative IA/Cybersecurity programs with industrial partners, and teaching IA and Cyber Security courses. From 2009-2017 Professor Papageorge served for 8 years as the director of the Master of Science in Information Assurance and Cyber Security Program responsible for overseeing the program curriculum and introducing the online version worldwide. The MS in Information Assurance and Cyber Security program, now offered both on-campus and online at Northeastern University, is available to an increased number of domestic and international students. He teaches the foundations of information assurance and the security risk management and assessment courses. Professor Papageorges twenty-five years of corporate experience in technology, planning and process, and system redesign included a decade of executive management positions with information assurance and cybersecurity companies. He was vice president of services at Guardium, a leader in real-time database security, auditing, and monitoring. Prior to that, he was vice president of services at Courion, a leader in identity access management, authentication, and security. Professor Papageorge has also held management positions at Digital Equipment Corporation. He received his PhD in risk management and engineering economics from the MIT Sloan School of Management, an MS in naval architecture and marine engineering from MIT, and a BS in naval architecture and marine engineering from National Technical University of Athens, Greece. Hometown Weston, Massachusetts Field of research/teaching Information Assurance and Cybersecurity What is your research focus? For my PhD thesis at MIT, I focused on risk management, including assets, threats, vulnerabilities, and resulting strategic, security, and financial risks. Since then, I have worked in risk management applications development, products, processes, systems, and security controls that manage risks, mitigate losses, and enable effective executive decision making for companies and government agencies. What courses/subjects do you teach? Foundations of Information Assurance Security Risk Management and Assessment What do you enjoy or find most rewarding about what you teach? I enjoy teaching information assurance and cybersecurity courses that prepare and enable our students to pursue rewarding careers, with the goal to become chief information security officers. I teach some of the best and brightest domestic and international students, with diverse backgrounds and experiences, and a strong interest in cybersecurity careers that benefit their lives and society at-large. Where did you grow up or spend your most defining years? I grew up in Athens, Greece and Boston, Massachusetts. Where did you study? I studied at MIT because it offered the programs I was excited about, and I had a strong interest in the leading advanced research available at that institution. I earned my BS at NTUA because it offered outstanding undergraduate teaching and research opportunities. What are the specifics of your industry experience? My experience is in information assurance and cybersecurity throughout the computer and software industry. I have had positions ranging from risk management applications development, to computer product management and marketing, to process and systems re-engineering, to executive management of departments and security companies. : 
