 Education PhD in Computer Science, University of Massachusetts Lowell BSCS, University of Massachusetts Lowell Biography Professor Martin Schedlbauer received his PhD in Computer Science from the University of Massachusetts Lowell in 2006 with a dissertation on modeling human performance during touch interactions with mobile devices in non-stationary environments. Afterwards, he taught information science, computer science, and operations management at the University of Massachusetts Lowell and Suffolk University. He joined the faculty at Northeastern in 2008 and presently serves as the director of the online faculty and online programs. Professor Schedlbauer founded several software and education companies prior to returning to academia. In his spare time, Martin enjoys boating and playing ice hockey. About Me Hometown: Boston, Massachusetts Field of research/teaching: Data and Information Science What is your educational background? PhD in Computer Science, University of Massachusetts Lowell What is your research focus? I conduct research in learning analytics and applied collaborative software development methods. I also have research interests in computer science education. What courses/subjects do you teach? I teach the following: IS1500 Introduction to Web Development IS2000 Principles of Information Science IS3500 Information Systems Design and Development IS4300 Human Computer Interaction IS4500 Software Quality Assurance IS4600 Software Project Management IS4800 Empirical Research IS4900 IS Senior Project DS4100 Data Integration & Analytics CS1100 Computer Science and Its Applications DA5020 Collecting, Storing, and Retrieving Data DA5030 Introduction to Data Mining & Machine Learning What do you enjoy most or find most rewarding about what you teach? I find the most rewarding aspect of teaching to be the collaborative discovery process. Where did you grow up or spend your most defining years? I grew up in Germany. What are the specifics of your industry experience? I started several tech companies including Technology Resource Group, Inc. as a founder, CEO, and CTO, as well as BEA Systems, Inc. as CTO, which is now part of Oracle. : 
