 Research Interests Graph Algorithms andAlgebraic Graph Theory Combinatorial Algorithms Education PhD in Mathematics, ETH Zrich MS in Mathematics,ETHZrich BS in Mathematics,ETHZrich BS in Physics,ETHZrich Biography Walter Schnyder is an Associate Teaching Professor at Northeastern Universitys College of Computer and Information Science. He earned his PhD from ETHZrich Swiss Federal Institute of Technology. Schnyders research areas include complexity theory and graphs. He has made significant contributions across combinatorial mathematics and theoretical computer science, most notably his namesaketheorem. Schnyders theorem provesthat a graph is planar if and only if the dimension of its incidence poset is at most three. Additionally, Schnydergave the first proof that a planar graph on n vertices could be layed out on a quadratic size grid. Schnyderswork has inspired the research of many other mathematicians and computer scientists and continues to do so today. About Me Hometown: Paris, France and Zrich, Switzerland What is your educational background? I completed high-school studies with the French Baccalaurat in Paris, then returned to Zrich, in my home country of Switzerland, for higher education at ETH (Swiss Federal Institute of Technology) with an initial focus in Physics. I completed my undergraduate studies with a BS in Physics and a BS in Mathematics (after my attention had turned to foundations). This course of studies ended with a MS in Mathematics (focus in logic). I then became interested in Computer Science, attending the Algorithmics seminar of E. Specker and V. Strassen and completed my PhD with the thesis Algorithms for Normal Forms of Graphs. What courses/subjects do you teach? At other institutions I have taught most of the common undergraduate and graduate theory courses, as well as some applied math courses. At Northeastern I teach: CS1800: Discrete Structures CS4800: Algorithms and Data CS5002: Discrete and Data Structures What do you enjoy most or find most rewarding about what you teach? I enjoy interacting with my students. They trust that I am here to help them and thats what I try to do. The topics I teach are often difficult and going through them is a collaborative process. This collaboration often happens in office hours, and there is no more satisfactory conclusion than seeing it succeed and solve the problem that was brought to me. My interaction with students also influences the way I teach. Students at Northeastern are focused and interested. They trust me with the responsibility to be part of their learning experience and while they learn from me, I also learn from them and adjust my teaching accordingly. : 
