 Education PhD in Computer Science, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities Masterof Computer Science, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities Bachelor in Computer Technology, Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute, University of Mumbai, India Biography Professor Amit Shesh is an Associate Teaching Professor at Northeastern Universitys College of Computer and Information Science. He holds a PhD and Masterof Computer Science from the University of Minnesota, as well as a Bachelors in Computer Technology from the University of Mumbai, India. Prof. Sheshs research includes problems of visual computing and the use of graphics in computer science education. Hometown Nagpur, India Field of research/teaching Computer graphics, computer science education What is your educational background? I received my PhD and Masterof Computer Science from the University of Minnesota, Twin Cities and my Bachelor in Computer Technology from Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute, which is affiliated with the University of Mumbai in India. I was fortunate to go to college with an interest in computer science and to quickly find myself correct. I entered a masters program because I was interested in further study. I pursued a PhD largely because it was necessary to become a professor, which is what I wanted to be. What is your research focus? I am interested in problems related to computer graphics with an everyday, non-technical user base. I devise algorithms that solve problems related to visual computing, using intuitive and smart interactivity. Problems that interest me target users who do not possess specialized hardware, expertise in 3D modeling tasks, or the motivation to devote significant time to it. This is the 3D equivalent of amateur photographers, who possess capable digital cameras and are very interested in producing good image effects, but are not motivated to learn Photoshop. My PhD dissertation was in the area of sketch-based modeling. Of late, I am increasingly interested in how and whether multi-modal interactivity, often made possible by mobile smart devices, can be used to solve 3D modeling and visualization problems faster. Over the years, I have developed an interest in computer science education. My research interests in this area relate to being an instructor of computer science. Specifically, I am interested in investigating the use of computer graphics as a medium and tool to increase interest in and facilitate STEM education. What courses/subjects do you teach? During my teaching career, I have taught a wide variety of computer science courses. The courses I most enjoy teaching are programming-intensive courses. I enjoy teaching computer graphics as it relates to my passion and area of research. What do you enjoy most or find most rewarding about what you teach? Teaching is a therapeutic experience for me. I derive great pleasure in presenting the same topic from different viewpoints, so that my students may understand it better. Among all my duties as a computer science academic, instruction provides me with the most instant gratification, coming in the form of students feedback, grades, and increased knowledge. Although I do not have a favorite set of students, I find that teaching B or C graded students is very satisfying, because students in these groups are often eager to improve. I like students who ask me questions, especially when they ask me questions which I cannot immediately answer. That indicates their genuine interest and effort to understand the material. : 
