 Biography Jay Spitulnik is an associate director at Northeastern Universitys College of Computer and Information Science. He brings a wealth of experience from corporate learning and the healthcare industry to CCIS. Jay earned his BA and MEd from Boston University and is working toward a PhD in Organizational Psychology which focuses on physician-allied health professional interaction. Education EdM in Educational Media and Technology, Boston University BA in Philosophy, Boston University Hometown Northborough, MA Field of research/teaching Project Management, organizational behavior, statistics What are the specifics of your educational background? At Boston University, I earned my BA in Philosophy and my EdM in Educational Media and Technology with a focus on instructional design and adult learning. I am currently working on a dissertation for PhD in Organizational Psychology, entitled Physician Collaboration and Improving Health Care Team Patient Safety Culture: A Quantitative Approach. What is your research focus in more detail? Is your current research path what you always had in mind for yourself, or has it evolved? My research focus evolved as a result of ten years of organization development and project management experience in the healthcare industry. I discovered that a great deal of attention was given to how the physician-nurse relationship affected patient outcomes and the patient experience, but there was very little research concerning physician relationships with other members of the care team. What courses/subjects do you teach? Project Management Statistics for Health Science Health Informatics Capstone Project What do you find most rewarding about what you teach? I enjoy the ah-ha moments when students begin to realize the impact that their learning can have on their working life. Where did you grow up or spend your most defining years? I grew up in Hornell, New York, a small town in the Finger Lakes/Southern Tier region of New York. I lived there until I left for college at eighteen. Where did you study? Any reason in particular behind your choice? My first two degrees were from Boston University. I went to BU because I wanted to be in Boston. What are the specifics of your industry experience? I have more than thirty-five years of experience in the field of individual and organizational learning in the corporate world. I have been an individual contributor, a manager, and both an internal and external consultant. The work that led me to Northeastern was more than ten years working in the healthcare industry, including extensive experience managing IT projects and consulting with IT project managers. : 
