 Education PhD in Computer Science, University of Victoria MS in Computer Science, University of British Columbia, Vancouver BS in Computer Science/Psychology, Queens University BS in Biology and Psychology, Queens University Biography ProfessorDavid Sprague received his PhD in Computer Science from the University of Victoria in 2011, where his research explored how visualizations are used in casual or non-work contexts. Prior to this, he studied human-computer interaction at the University of British Columbias Imager Lab, where he received his MS. Prof. Spragues undergraduate degrees from Queens University are in biology/psychology and computer science. He has taught at the University of British Columbia and has been a user interface designer and developer at CD-adapco and Google. His research interests include casual information visualizations, InfoVis aesthetics, human factors associated with virtual reality, human-computer interaction, and educational games. Hometown St. Johns, Newfoundland, Canada Field of research/teaching Human-computer interaction, Visualization What is your educational background? I planned to become a medical doctor like my father, doggedly, and somewhat unsuccessfully, working away on a biology/psychology combined major. In my final undergraduate year, I took an introductory computer science course as an elective and discovered a science that I was not only good at but also one that truly excited me. Since then, Ive combined these two degrees to explore human-computer interaction. I looked at human factors influencing motor tasks in virtual reality for my MS, and for my PhD, I wanted to explore the recent emergence of so-called casual visualizations. Even in 2006, I felt that we were inundated with massive amounts of data and that many people may find it beneficial to explore and analyze it for fun, personal growth, or a hobby. Others might use visualizations just to cope with the deluge of information we regularly experience. My dissertation looked at human factors surrounding visualizations used in casual contexts. What is your research focus? Im currently focusing on lecturing, which is the original reason I set out to earn my PhD. Although I love visualization research, and despite some potential side projects on the horizon, I always wanted to focus on teaching undergraduates. Ive had some inspirationalcomputer scienceinstructors during my studies and I hope that I can get others interested in our field. What courses/subjects do you teach? Currently I teach: CS 1800 Discrete Structures CS 2800 Logic & Computation IS 4300 HCI What do you enjoy most or find most rewarding about what you teach? Im always amazed at the caliber of students we have at Northeastern. Its extremely rewarding to teach such intelligent and motivated students, but its even more satisfying seeing them fall in love withcomputer sciencethe way I did. : 
