 Education PhD in Computer Science, Ohio State University MS in Computer Science, Ohio State University BS, Denison University Biography Michael Weintraub came to CCIS after more than a twenty year career at Verizon/GTE Laboratories as both an executive and technologist. Most recently, he worked on data center and cloud computing architecture, design, and development. Prior to that, Mike worked in various roles throughout technology focusing on the application of innovation to drive new services. He led the design and development of Verizons Digital Media Services platform. Mike helped establish the LTE Innovation Center facility in Waltham. He developed application layer architectures and service opportunities for the small business market and real-time communications. At GTE Labs, Michael worked on application developments such as building a next generation application server that ran over a VoIP softswitch, operations support systems for provisioning and accounting of GTE Internetworkings IP-based communications services, and a management system for provisioning outside plant facilities inventory. Michael contributed to the GTE PCS auction team by co-developing a computer simulation of what was then a novel type of auction. In addition, he led several facility constructions, netting him several hard hats and a burgeoning interest in architecture, human dynamics, and data center design. Michael earned his MS and PhD in Computer Science from The Ohio State University. He specialized in machine learning and expert systems, with his work being applied to developing an expert system for analyzing human gait. He earned his BS from Denison University and is a senior member of the ACM and the IEEE. He has earned several patents. About Me Hometown: Cincinnati Field of research/teaching: Software engineering What is your educational background? I earned my BS from Denison University and my MS and PhD from Ohio State University. I also received a Certificate in Management and Leadership from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. What is your research focus? Virtualization, system design, new application design, networks, technology decision making What courses/subjects do you teach? CS 4500 CS 5500 What do you find most rewarding about what you teach? Is there anything notable or unique about the kind of students that you teach? What I find rewarding is seeing students grasp an idea and then come up with something even better. I like how they look at things in new and unfiltered ways. Where did you grow up or spend yourmost defining years? Cincinnati, OH Where did you study? Any reason in particular behind your choice? I studied at a small liberal arts school in central Ohio, thinking Id pursue law or maybe medicine. My Dad told me to take lots of math and I actually listened. At Denison, CS is part of the Math Department, and thats where I got introduced to Comp Sci, ending up with CS and Math degrees. Circumstances led me to graduate study at Ohio State. I tried a few areas graphics, distributed systems before settling on AI, specifically expert systems and machine learning, and enjoyed working with doctors on medical decision making systems. I built a system for analyzing the gait of patients with cerebral palsy and strokes, which aimed to help clinicians better diagnose problems to determine more effective therapies. What isyour industry experience? I spent twenty-three years in the telecommunications industry. : 
