 Education MS, Boston University BS, University of Massachusetts at Amherst Biography Steve Abramson is a Technical Architect/Manager for Harman International Inc.. developing software in the Internet of Things (IOT) space. Prior to Harman, Steve was Director of Software Engineering at BizSlate, Inc., a cloud-based inventory management solution. Steve has also held several architect and development roles delivering, scalable, reliable and secure cloud-based systems for both private industry and academia. In addition, he co-developed a mobile consumer application deployed on the Android and iOS operating systems. He received his Masters of Science degree in computer science from Boston University and his Bachelors of Science degree in electrical engineering from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. About Me Hometown: Framingham, MA What are the specifics of your educational background? MSCS with Concentration in Object Oriented Programming, Boston University, 1998 BSEE with Minor in Applied Mathematics, University of Massachusetts at Amherst 1989 What are your research interests? My research is focused on innovative cloud-based solutions incorporating reliability, scalability and security. What courses do you teach? IA5004 Introduction to Cyberspace Programming I IA5040 Introduction to Cyberspace Programming II This course offers an introduction to the Python and C programming languages. Where did you grow up or spend your most defining years? I grew up in Sharon, Massachusetts. Where did you study? I decided to study at Boston University and University of Massachusetts,Amherst. They were both close to home, family and work. What are the specifics of your industry experience? I have spent several years as a software developer, software architect, software consultant and director of software teams. I have broad experience in the software development process, especially (over the past 10 years) in cloud based solutions. I have been certified as an Amazon Web Services Solutions Architect. : 
