 Education MS in Information Assurance, Northeastern University BS in Computer Science, University of Rhode Island Biography Derek Brodeur is a Part-Time Lecturer at the Northeastern University College of Computer and Information Science. He focuses on computer security, systems, and networks, having earned his MS in Information Assurance at Northeastern. In addition to his role at Northeastern, he has worked at MITRE on several Air Force programs and now at a network security startup based in California. Brodeur holds a BS in Computer Science from the University of Rhode Island. Research Labs and Groups Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition Team Hometown Tiverton Field of research/teaching Information Assurance What are the specifics of your educational background? I earned my Bachelor of Science in Computer Science with a minor in digital forensics from the University of Rhode Island. For my MS in Information Assurance, I studied at Northeastern University. What is your research focus in a bit more detail? Is your current research path what you always had in mind for yourself, or has it evolved? I focus on computer system and network security, network access controls, and systems engineering. Once I became involved in digital forensics as an undergraduate, and as personal computing really took off, I knew security was going to be absolutely essential in the future. What courses/subjects do you teach? Foundations of Information Assurance Computer System Security What do you find most rewarding about what you teach? Students in our classes are truly interested in computer and network security and want to find fun and exciting jobs in the field. Our program helps them do this and, every time I see a former student land a good job, it makes teaching incredibly rewarding. What are the specifics of your industry experience? Previously, I worked at MITRE doing security and engineering work for the Air Force, specifically working on a program dedicated to supporting forward deployed troops overseas. It was exciting to see our hard work being used to defend our country and the lives of our troops in dangerous environments. I currently work for a network security startup based in California, focusing on network access control and security for the Internet of Things. : 
