 Education MS in Mathematics, University of Washington BA in Physics and Mathematics, Whitman College Biography Marlin Jay Eller is a Part-Time Lecturer in theCollege of Computer and Information Science at Northeastern Universitys Seattle campus. Marlin earned his Bachelors Degree in Physics and Mathematics at Whitman College and his Masters Degree in Mathematics from the University of Washington. Marlins research area includes Programming Languages. He is a native of Pasadena, California. Before coming to Northeastern, Marlin worked at Microsoft, where he managed software development projects for 13 years. He will be teaching Discrete Math and Introduction to C Programming, and he looks forward to teaching students the ins and outs of programming. What are your research interests? I have broad interests rather than a narrow focus and in my long career I have been involved in many projects. One thing though that has been somewhat constant is an interest in how to make computers more friendly i.e. better user interfaces. Windows at Microsoft was an excursion into Graphical User Interface. I developed Pen Windows also for Microsoft with handwriting recognition software. I have developed music notation software in both gui and handwritten forms. My current interest in teaching CS is much the same how can people get more out of machines. What do you find most rewarding about what you teach? I specialize in teaching programming to people who believe that they have no interest in programming and no ability to do so. I believe that what I teach is fun and I just share the fun. Where did you grow up or spend your most defining years? Surfing at Huntington Beach and reading Batman, oh and Martin Gardner. I read lots of recreational Math. My rec math library has at least 7 yards of books. What are the specifics of your industry experience? I managed software development projects at Microsoft for 13 years. Designed and wrote GDI for Windows 1.0 worked on networks, handwriting recognition, worked in Japan on Kanji character recognition, did floating point math standards, video compression. Left Microsoft and started a dot-com to sell online sheet music, started a printing & sheet music production company in Chelyabinsk Russia. Took my dot-com public 2 weeks before the dot-com bubble burst. Downsized multiple times and sold it. Helped found a computer online casual games company, Reflexive, which we eventually sold to Amazon. Where did you study? Um in the library? I choose my college for the stupidest of reasons which is of course exactly what the college recruiters and marketing folks wanted us to do They showed people flopped in the aisles of the library feet up totally immersed in their reading. Boy, that looks like fun! I wanna go there! : 
