 Education MS in Applied Mathematics and Operations Research, Rensselear Polytechnic Institute BS in Mathematics, Middlebury College Biography Craig is a thought leader, innovator, entrepreneur and part time faculty in the Healthcare Informatics graduate program focused on the business application of machine learning and decision support in healthcare. He started his career as a data scientist at NASAs Jet Propulsion Laboratory where he developed a communication planning application for deep spacecraft supporting the Pioneer, Voyager and Galileo missions. He brought that experience to healthcare and applied it in various settings applying technology to complex prediction, scheduling, planning, resource allocation and campaign management problems. Craig is currently co-founder and Chief Science/Technology Officer at Decision Point Healthcare and founder and principal consultant at Synthesis Health Systems. About Me Field of Research/Teaching: business application of machine learning and decision support in healthcare What are the specifics of your educational background? I received my undergraduate degree in mathematics from Middlebury College and hold a masters degree in Applied Mathematics and Operations Research from Rensselear Polytechnic Institute. What is your research focus in a bit more detail? Is your current research path what you always had in mind for yourself, or has it evolved somewhat? If so, how/why? After straying in to management roles in information technology since my days at JPL, I have settled back in to creating innovative technology solutions that help healthcare organizations engage with at risk member patients. My passion is better understanding the underlying business problem and figuring out what blending of technologies can be solutioned to address that problem. What courses/subjects do you teach? I teach Business Application of Decision Support in Healthcare and Data Management in Healthcare. What do you enjoy most/find most rewarding about what you teach? Is there anything notable or unique about the kind of students that you teach? I really enjoy bringing my industry experience to the classroom. I tend to focus less on theory and more on the application of technology in the real world specifically sharing real world examples of barriers to successful implementation. What are the specifics of your industry experience? I started my career as a data scientist at NASA/JPL where I developed a hybrid heuristic mathematical optimization platform for spacecraft communication planning. After moving to healthcare, Ive held multiple IT management positions ultimately holding the position of CIO at a healthplan. Since then, I have been consulting to healthplans and hospitals and most recently co-founded a healthcare engagement analytics company. : 
