 Education MS, Boston University BS, Boston College Biography Professor Mary Kennedy teaches Introduction to Health Care Informatics at Northeastern University in the College of Computer and Information Science. She is board certified in Nursing Informatics and earned her Masters of Science degree from Boston University as well as her Bachelors of Science degree from Boston College. Prior to joining Northeastern, Professor Kennedy worked with healthcare organizations and solution vendors, both as a clinical nurse as well as an expert in health care information technology. About Me Hometown: Buffalo, New York, USA Field of research/teaching: Health Care Informatics What are the specifics of your educational background? I graduated with A BS in Nursing from Boston College, and an MS in Nursing from Boston University. I am also Board Certified in Nursing Informatics. What are your research interests? My research interest is in the impact of health care information technology (HIT) on the patient experience and the environment of care as well as clinical informatics competency definition. What courses do you teach? HINF5101 Intro to Health Informatics What do you enjoy most/find most rewarding about what you teach? Is there anything notable or unique about the kind of students that you teach? I enjoy the multicultural aspect of my students as well as the mix of technical and clinical experience each student brings to class. It reflects the modern healthcare organization and makes for very interesting conversations. Where did you grow up/spend the most defining years of your childhood/young adulthood? I grew up on the shores of Lake Erie. They were wonderful summers and white winters with the lake effect snow that would arrive each December -or earlier! Where did you study? I studied in Boston because of the access to advanced healthcare organizations and clinical experts, but my professional life has exposed me to health care throughout the world. What are the specifics of your industry experience? I have a diverse background. I started my professional career as a Clinical Nurse and became interested in technology as we stated to build the electronic health record. So in addition to my clinical leadership experience, I also have worked with a variety of healthcare organizations and solution vendors. I always try to bring the clinical and patient perspective into technical applications and solutions. : 
