 Education MS in Health Informatics, Northeastern University BA in Biology, Queens College City University of New York Biography Marie A. Maloney is a seasoned information technology and healthcare informatics educator, consultant, executive, and chief information officer. Professor Maloney is interested in the integration of payer and provider processes to optimize the quality of patient care. She has expertise in collaborating with clinical leadership to develop and support innovative care management approaches for dual eligible populations and government programs. Professor Maloney has been a chief information officer for several leading health care organizations in the Northeast, including Boston Medical Centers HealthNet Plan, Senior Whole Health of New York and Massachusetts, and other health plans. She has driven IT transformation through the alignment of IT and business strategies. Professor Maloney led the implementation and transition to advanced, state of the art systems, including the development of integrated data warehouses that provide the analytics important to improving health care delivery quality and lowering costs among high risk populations. Professor Maloney was the president of the New England Chapter of HIMSS in 2014-15 and now holds the position of vice president in the organization. Currently, she teaches in the Health Informatics Masters program at Northeastern University and consults in healthcare informatics. She earned a BA in Biology from Queens College City University of New York and a MS in Healthcare Informatics from Northeastern University. Hometown Hingham, MA Field of research/teaching Healthcare Informatics What are the specifics of your educational background? I earned my BA in Biology from Queens College but also attended the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. My MS in Health Informatics is from Northeastern, having joined the first class of the program. What courses/subjects do you teach? The business of healthcare informatics Introduction to health informatics What do you enjoy most about what you teach? Is there anything notable or unique about the kind of students that you teach? I have a passion for healthcare and the role that informatics plays in the industry. My career has given me an opportunity to contribute to the fields development. I enjoy sharing my passion, and vision for the fields evolution with my students, who are entering the field or seeking opportunities to advance their skills. I enjoy hearing students perspectives on how changes in healthcare affect them both personally and at work. Where did you grow up or spend your most defining years? I grew up in New York City in Brooklyn and Queens, where I was exposed to the healthcare challenges of immigrant populations which sparked my interest in healthcare. Where did you study? Any reason in particular behind your choice? I graduated from Queens College with a degree in biology. I had the opportunity to take courses in computer programming, which I found very interesting. This experience fueled my interest in the convergence of the science and technology which are essential to improving healthcare outcomes. What are the specifics of your industry experience? I have worked in the healthcare industry for more than twenty years in various settings and most recently in CIO roles. Technology in healthcare has always been a passion of mine, and I believe that current and new technology will improve not only the quality of healthcare but also the quality of life for all people. : 
