 Education MS in International Management, University of Denver BBA, Stephen F Austin State University About Me Hometown: Brookline, MA Field of Research/Teaching: American Health System What are the specifics of your educational background? I bring more than twenty years of experience in healthcare payer and provider software implementation, data analytics, business intelligence, clinical data improvement, business process improvement, business analysis and custom development. I have helped a variety of clients significantly advance their business operations by utilizing a pragmatic, people-focused, workflow approach to business process improvement. My portfolio of work includes large scale program leadership, subject matter expertise in requirements analysis, systems implementations, claims processing, case management, provider/member data processing, provider/member portals, population health, CDI deployment and provider engagement. I spent several years leading large and small claims processing and case management software system implementations within the payer space including commercial, Medicaid and Medicare populations. Most recently I worked with a variety of provider software organizations to optimize CDI value delivery to physicians and hospitals. What are your research interests? I am focused on healthcare payer and provider systems. What courses do you teach? HINF 5015 American Healthcare System What do you enjoy most/find most rewarding about what you teach? Is there anything notable or unique about the kind of students that you teach? I absolutely love teaching. The US healthcare system is not the most straightforward and I thoroughly enjoy discussing areas filled with complexity until the are clear and simple. Students have wonderful ideas regarding how to improve a system that is not consistently working for all parties. Where did you grow up/spend the most defining years of your childhood/young adulthood? I grew up on a pig farm in Nebraska before spending middle school in LA and high school in Texas. Where did you study? Any reason in particular behind your choice? I earned my Bachelor of Business Administration degree from Stephen F Austin State University in Nacogdoches, Texas. It was an accredited business school, the right distance from home and beautiful. I earned my Master of International Management degree from the University of Denver as it was one of the few programs in the country at the time that offered an international MBA. My master plan was to own an import/export company but instead I have spent my career creating and implementing software in the healthcare industry. What are the specifics of your industry experience? Healthcare, Consulting, Software Development and Implementation, Healthcare IT, Product Management : 
