 Education PhD in Healthcare Management and Economics, Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania BS in Management Science and Writing, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Biography Adam C. Powell, PhD, is the President of Payer+Provider Syndicate, a management advisory and operational consulting firm focused on the managed care and healthcare delivery industries. As a healthcare economist, Professor Powells specialty is using quantitative techniques to examine issues concerning technology, operations, and firm decision making. Professor Powell publishes research on healthcare quality as it applies to mHealth and high-cost interventions. He serves on the Editorial Board of the Journal of Medical Internet Research (JMIR): Mental Health and on the Scientific Advisory Board of PsyberGuide. Professor Powell holds a Doctorate and Masters degree from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, where he studied Health Care Management and Economics. He also holds Bachelors degrees in Management Science and Writing from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Professor Powell is a member of the adjunct faculty of Northeastern University, where he teaches students in the Health Informatics Graduate Program. He additionally serves on the Visiting Faculty of the Indian School of Business, where he teaches a post-graduate course on Health IT. Outside of his consulting and academic work, Professor Powell has been featured in over one hundred and fifty articles from outlets including JAMA, CNN, Forbes, Fox, Inc., NBC News, Reuters, The Christian Science Monitor, U.S. News & World Report, Yahoo! Finance, Beckers Hospital Review, Fierce, Healthcare Finance News, HealthLeaders Media, KevinMD, mHIMSS, Modern Healthcare, Minyanville, and Seeking Alpha. At Northeastern, Professor Powell teaches Global Health Informatics and Public Health Surveillance and Informatics. About Me Hometown: Boston, MA Field of Research/Teaching: Personal Health Informatics What are the specifics of your educational background? I earned my PhD in Healthcare Management and Economics from The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and my BS in Management Science and BS in Writing from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). What are your research interests? My research focuses on improving the quality of healthcare. One stream of my work focuses on examining how we can measure quality in mobile health (mHealth). Another stream of my work focuses on assessing the performance of quality improvement programs in high-cost areas of medicine, such as cardiology, oncology, and radiology. What courses/subjects do you teach? Global Health Informatics Public Health Surveillance and Informatics What do you find most rewarding about what you teach? I always enjoy hearing about what students are doing at work. It is great to learn about how students are putting concepts from class into action. Where did you grow up/spend the most defining years of your childhood/young adulthood? I grew up in a suburb of Chicago, but have spent my entire adult life on the East Coast. I moved to Boston for the first time at 16, and have moved back twice since. Where did you study? Any reason in particular behind your choice (a program you were excited about, a city you love, a researcher you wanted to work with)? At MIT, I studied Management Science with a focus on information systems. I additionally studied Expository Writing. One writing class required me to create specifications for an interactive website. I decided to create specifications for an online wellness tool, and worked with a team of students to implement it. The project got me excited about digital health, and led to an undergraduate thesis on the impact of health IT on cost and quality. After completing the thesis, I sent it out to various doctoral programs within business schools, with the intention of studying the intersection between healthcare and technology. I ended up at Whartons program in healthcare management and economics. At Wharton, I wrote a dissertation which focused on technology purchasing within hospitals. Since computed tomography (CT) machines are an expensive technology, but more uniform than information systems, I focused the research on CT purchasing. Moving forward to today, I remain interested in issues involving both digital health and high-cost fields such as radiology. What are the specifics of your industry experience? I founded Payer+Provider Syndicate, a consultancy that enables health services companies and investors to better understand operational issues through market analysis, intervention evaluation, and the development of performance improvement methodologies. At Payer+Provider, I build client relationships with a wide variety of firms, including a multinational Fortune 500 company, an academic medical center, a diabetes management company, a provider performance improvement company, a diagnostics company, a utilization management company, a provider strategy consultancy, a change management consultancy, and many other firms in the industry. Over the years, my commentary on healthcare has been featured in articles written by CNN, Fortune, Fox Business, Inc., NBC, Reuters, Yahoo! Health, and numerous other outlets. : 
