 Education MA in Sociology, Boston College BS in Psychology, George Washington University Biography As vice president at Applied Management Systems in Burlington, Shari Robbins has spent almost twenty years assisting clients achieve their health care operational goals via process improvement initiatives. Robbins has performed studies in virtually every hospital department, with a focus on physician practices/ambulatory clinics, emergency department, and health information management. Her technical contribution includes management span of control, labor productivity assessments, workflow analyses, and comprehensive project management support. The crux of any project is having a plan. Using her prior project work as real-life examples, Robbins runs project management seminars for both state and National healthcare societies as well as on-site seminars to meet her clients needs. To fulfill her love of teaching, Robbins works as a professor in Northeastern Universitys graduate health informatics program, teaching Organizational Behavior, Workflow Design, and Change Management. Robbins most recent published article by the Journal of Healthcare Management, entitled Portion Control Opportunities: Real Time Gains in Hospital Patient Throughput, discusses strategies that focus on how to break down a large project into manageable bite size pieces in order to make the often overwhelming big picture attainable. Robbins is a member of the American College of Healthcare Executives and a senior member of the Health Information Management Systems Society. She holds her undergraduate degree from George Washington University and her Masters from Boston College. Hometown Marblehead, MA. Field of research/teaching Organizational Behavior What are the specifics of your educational background? I graduated from George Washington University with a BS in Psychology and received my masters in Sociology from Boston College. What is your research focus in a bit more detail? Is your current research path what you always had in mind for yourself, or has it evolved? My research focuses on human behavior and the interpersonal impact of our relationships, both personally and professionally. We often have two selves: the one we know and one that is hidden/have yet to discover. I am driven by continuing to uncover this in myself and assisting others to recognize their strengths and opportunities for growth. What courses/subjects do you teach? Organizational behavior, workflow, and change management What do you enjoy most about what you teach? Each year, I am always impressed with the caliber of students who enter my classroom; from full time students to physicians, the myriad of backgrounds and ideas leads to thought provoking discussion. Where did you grow up or spend yourmost defining years? I grew up in Marblehead, MA, and the ocean is home for me. : 
