 Education PhD in Mathematics, California Institute of Technology MSin Mathematics, The Ohio State University BS in Mathematics, The Ohio State University Biography Joseph J. Rushanan is a Part-Time Lecturer at Northeastern Universitys College of Computer and Information Science. He earned both his BS and MS Degrees in Mathematics from The Ohio State University in 1982, and he received his PhD in Mathematics from California Institute of Technology in 1986. A resident of Bedford, Massachusetts, Josephs research and teaching areas include security,cryptography and mathematics. He works as a Principal Mathematician at the MITRE Corporation, where his current focus is on GPS and other Positioning, Navigation and Timing (PNT) research. What are the specifics of your educational background? All my degrees are in pure mathematics, with a background also in computer science. My focus in school was in combinatorics and algebra. I taught many classes as an undergrad and in graduate school. What are the specifics of your industry experience? My full time job is as a Principal Mathematician at the MITRE Corporation. I lead various projects in the field of navigation, e.g., on GPS and other Positioning, Navigation, Timing (PNT) areas. What is your research focus? I have worked in such diverse areas as binary sequences, wireless communication, and navigation. For example, for GPS I designed the spreading codes for the new civil GPS signal to be launched in the near future. I have more recently focused on security related issues, e.g., applied cryptography. What are the specifics of your industry experience? I have been at MITRE for over 30 years. What courses/subjects do you teach? Applied Cryptography Concrete Mathematics In both cases, I try to emphasize as much as possible the application side of the mathematics. Where did you study? Although all of my degrees are in pure mathematics, I was focused on a career in industry, where I can apply mathematics to solve real problems. That said, I have also taught part-time while at MITRE for most of my 30 years. : 
