 Education Doctoral Training in Computer Science ABD, University of Florida MS in Computer Science, Washington State University PhD in Engineering,University of Florida Post-Doctoral Fellowship,UT Austin ICES Biography As VP of Data Science at Edifecs, Prasad Saripalli helps design, build and deliver Smart Decisions ML & AI Platform with an App Store for Healthcare Payer and Provider. Prior to joining Edifecs, he served as Chief Technology Officer and VP of engineering at Secrata.com, which provides military-grade cloud security solutions. Previously, he worked as Chief Technology Officer and Executive VP at ClipCard and as Chief Architect for IBMs SmartCloud enterprise. He also served as principal group program manager on Microsofts client virtualization team, which was responsible for shipping Virtual PC on Windows 7, and as a dev manager on the Citrix group that built Citrix Presentation Server (now Citrix XenApp). Prasad has a masters in computer science from the University of Washington, doctoral training in engineering and computer science from the University of Florida and post-doctoral training from the University of Texas. He serves as a Professor of Practice at the University of the Pacifics Data Science department. About Me Hometown:San Francisco Bay Area Field of research/teaching:Machine Learning and AI; Distributed Systems What is your research focus in a bit more detail? Is your current research path what you always had in mind for yourself, or has it evolved somewhat? If so, how/why? Distributed Systems, Cloud and Virtualization Healthcare Machine Learning Artificial Intelligence for Healthcare I published work and patents in Distributed Systems (Cloud and Virtualization) as they relate to work experience at Citrix (Presentation Virtualization), Microsoft (VM) and IBM Research. My research and teaching evolved from this experience. What courses/subjects do you teach? Distributed Systems Machine Learning and AI Healthcare Machine Learning Artificial Intelligence for Healthcare Cloud and Virtualization Computational Science and Visualization What do you enjoy most/find most rewarding about what you teach? Is there anything notable or unique about the kind of students that you teach? The experience of teaching. : 
