 Biography Jorge Toro is a Human Computer Interaction Engineer at Morse Corp in Cambridge, MA. He is actively involved in the design and development of interactive systems for personnel in the DoD (both military and civilian). His professional interests are in the areas of User Interfaces, User Experience, Information Architecture, Human Factors, Human Computer Interaction and any other field associated with the creation of usable, efficient and effective user interfaces for people. After finishing his Ph.D. in 2005 at DePaul University in Chicago, IL, Jorge moved to Boston where worked as a Software Engineer at VT MAK in Cambridge, MA. After a few years in the software development arena and given his deep interest in HCI, Jorge joined the team at ICS in Waltham, MA where he worked as a UX Engineering consultant. During his tenure at ICS, Jorge provided consulting services to a variety of companies including Shell, Intel, Panasonic, Microsoft, and Electrolux. After ICS, Jorge worked as a HCI Engineer at Shell Techworks in Cambridge, MA, where he worked in various multidisciplinary projects for the Oil & Gas industry focusing primarily on user requirement elicitation, user safety, user interface design, and feasibility studies. Jorge has also lectured undergraduate and graduate level courses in Human Computer Interaction, Computer Science and Computer Graphics. He holds a BS and MS in Computer Science, a MS in Human Computer Interaction and a Ph.D. in Computer Science with concentrations in Software Engineering, Human Computer Interaction and Computer Graphics A native from Colombia and loyal coffee drinker, Jorge is a sworn enemy of fruit flies! EDUCATION PhD in Computer Science, DePaul University, School of CTI Chicago, IL (Computer Graphics, Software Engineering, and Human Computer Interaction.) MS in Human Computer Interaction, DePaul University, School of CTI Chicago, IL (User interface design, prototyping, and usability testing.) MS in Computer Science, University of Los Andes Bogot, Colombia (Robotics and Computer Graphics.) BS in Computer Science, University of Los Andes Bogot, Colombia (Robotics and Computer Graphics.) Field of research/teaching My field of research is centered around HCI. What are the specifics of your educational background? My educational background is a hybrid between Computer Science (Software development) and Human Computer Interaction. My undergraduate degree as well as my first masters degree were primarily on software development for Robotics applications (Path Planning) and Computer Graphics. Later I developed a strong interest in User Interfaces since that was an area that never learned in school and it was totally neglected in the industry. The result of such interest landed me in the US where I pursued the Masters in HCI and later the Ph.D. in CS with focus in HCI. What is your research focus in a bit more detail? Is your current research path what you always had in mind for yourself, or has it evolved somewhat? If so, how/why? For research, I am interested in developing improved analytical models and methods for design, evaluation, and testing of mobile tools to help people with disabilities. I also have a personal interest in researching analytic models based upon user data to build better information architectures. One product of this research was the CardZort software which I authored. I also researched the practical application of augmented reality in the Oil and Gas sector and as well as the impact of situational awareness during the operation of complex systems (all of these resulted in internal, confidential reports). Most recently I have primarily worked in applying what I have learned in HCI to produce better and more efficient tools for use primarily in air drops for military research and analysis. These research interests possess real-world application in the areas of product design, information architecture design, emerging technologies, and UX design; which can complement the existing research interests of the department. What courses/subjects do you teach? Thus far, my areas of experience in teaching have been in Human Computer Interaction (prototyping techniques, usability inspection methods, information architecture, user interface design), Computer Science (programming in C, C++, JAVA, C#, VB.NET), data structures in C and C++, web programming, object oriented programming), and Computer Graphics (modeling, rendering, and scripting). : 
