 Education MBA, Plymouth State University BSN, College of Saint Teresa Biography As Associate Vice President of MEDITECH, Catherine Turner, BSN, MBA, RN-BC, is responsible for all clinical implementations working closely with healthcare executives to ensure EHR adoption is in accordance with best practices. With a passion for ensuring that clinicians take advantage of technology to provide safer care while optimizing workflows, Professor Turner works with her dedicated team to ensure that success is achieved. As an advisor on MEDITECHs Patient Safety Review Board and Customer Patient Safety Advisory Board, she instills the culture of patient safety throughout the organization. Since joining MEDITECH in 1991, she lends her expertise to the implementation, development and marketing of a variety of clinical solutions. Professor Turner is well-known as a leader in the nursing informatics community. She is the Director of MEDITECHs Nurse Informatics Program and spearheads the annual Nurse Conference. She is an active member of the HIMSS CNO-CNIO Vendor Roundtable Summit, a member of the Healthcare Information Management System Society (HIMSS), and the American Nursing Informatics Association (ANIA), and represents MEDITECHs Nursing Informatics Program for the Alliance for Nursing Informatics (ANI). Professor Turner is a regular reviewer for their publications, as well as a popular presenter at nationwide conferences and past content expert for AHIMA publications. She is an adjunct professor at Northeastern Universitys Bouv College of Health Sciences, Health Informatics Program, and School of Nursing, having taught programs both in the classroom and online, and recently developed and taught Introduction to Health Informatics in a newly formed program at the University of Miami, FL. Professor Turner has over a decades worth of experience as a licensed registered nurse in both the acute and outpatient settings. As nurse manager at Concord Hospital (Concord, NH), she helped lead the implementation of a patient care system, embracing nursing informatics throughout the rest of her career. She later became manager of mammography clinics in Bedford and Dover, New Hampshire. Professor Turner received her MBA from Plymouth State University (Plymouth, NH) and her certification in nursing informatics from the American Nurses Credentialing Center. She earned her BSN at the College of St. Teresa (Winona, MN), affiliated with the Mayo Clinic hospitals (Rochester, MN), and was invited to join the Gamma Epsilon chapter of the Honor Society of Nursing, Sigma Theta Tau International. About Me Hometown: Chelmsford, MA Field of Research/Teaching: Nursing/Nursing Informatics, Healthcare Informatics and EHR : 
