 Jinho D. Choi Department of Computer Science Emory University Home Bio/CV Academic Research Publications About me Assistant professor at Emory University : Department of Computer Science . Institute of Quantitative Theory and Methods . Program of Linguistics . Director of the Emory NLP Research Lab . Faculty advisor of the Korean-American Scientists and Engineers Association . Contact Office: Mathematics and Science Center E414 Address: 400 Dowman Dr, Atlanta, GA 30322 Phone: (404) 712-5694, Fax: (404) 727-5611 Email: firstname.lastname @emory.edu Research My research focuses on the advancement of Natural Language Processing (NLP) for "robustness" on diverse data and "scalability" on large data. The goal is to develop NLP models that are readily available for interdisciplinary research. I believe that NLP models we develop can change the way you analyze data, which will open up many new opportunities to conduct innovative research. All our NLP models (e.g., dependency parsing, named entity recognition, sentiment analysis, entity linking, question answering) are publicly available through our open-source project in Github. In 2015, I created a new project called " Character Mining ", aiming to extract implicit and explicit information about individual characters in multiparty dialogue. The long-term goal is to develop a machine comprehension system that understands entity-centric contexts from human conversations and helps us reason better about those contexts. Currently, this project focuses on the following tasks: character identification , emotion detection , reading comprehension , and multi-modal learning. Since 2018, we have developed a cloud-based NLP platform called ELIT , Evolution of Language and Information Technology, that brings the latest NLP technology into the cloud. As the state-of-the-art NLP models consume more and more resources (e.g., GPUs, RAMs), they become almost impossible to be run on personal computers. Researchers can take advantage of the ELIT platform through our web-APIs, which requires no installation on local machines and minimum knowledge in any programming language, while developers can contribute to the platform by deploying their own models. News [01/07/2019] I am one of the area chairs for the Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL'19). News from previous years . 2014-2019 Jinho D. Choi 
