 Lars Ruthotto about | projects | software | publications | teaching | links | talks | cv Position: Assistant Professor Address: Department of Mathematics and Computer Science Emory University Atlanta, GA 30322 USA Office: W408, Mathematics and Science Center Office hours: Spring 2019: Mon 4-5, Tue 2-3 and 4-5, Wed 4-5, and by appointment Exceptions: 02/25 - 03/01, 04/01 - 04/02. Quick links: Google Scholar , ResearchGate , GitHub , Emory Scientific Computing E-mail: lruthotto at emory.edu Short Bio I am an assistant professor at Emory University in Atlanta, GA. I received my diploma and my Ph.D. in mathematics from the University of Mnster in 2010 and 2012, respectively. Prior to joining Emory, I was a postdoctoral research fellow at the University of British Columbia and during my PhD I held positions at the Universities of Lbeck and Mnster. My research interests include numerical analysis (particularly numerical methods for optimization, linear algebra, and partial differential equations) and scientific computing with applications in medical and geophysical imaging and machine learning. My research is supported by the National Science Foundation, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and NVIDIA. I am also a senior consultant at Xtract Technology . Latest News and Activities Can now be found in the Twitter feed to your right. Older news are still available here . Research interest My general field of interest is computational methods for inverse problems arising in medical and geophysical imaging. I recently also started working on data science applications such as training of deep neural networks. My research is interdisciplinary and covers a variety of topics ranging from mathematical theory via the design of numerical algorithms and efficient computational methods towards solving problems arising in real-world applications. From a mathematical point of view, my work involves variational calculus, numerical solutions of partial differential equations, numerical optimization, sparse linear algebra, multi-level, multiscale and multigrid methods. I am interested in designing efficient implementations using parallel and distributed computing techniques. Teaching interest I enjoy teaching regular one-semester courses in applied mathematics, in particular, numerical analysis, numerical linear algebra, numerical optimization, and inverse problems. Further, I like giving graduate level workshops and tutorials related to my research in image registration and PDE parameter estimation. For a list of current and recent courses and workshops, click here . Academic advising I have research opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students to work on challenging mathematical problems with applications in medical imaging, geophysical exploration, and data science. Undergraduate students must be currently enrolled at Emory (ideally invited to the Honors program), and Graduate students need first be admitted into Laney Graduate School (more info here ). Contact me for more details. Tweets by @larsruthotto 
