 Ymir Vigfusson About Me Publications Projects Teaching Talks Music Who I Am I am Assistant Professor in the Department of Mathematics and Computer Science at Emory University since 2014, and Adjunct Assistant Professor at School of Computer Science at Reykjavik University in Iceland since 2011. I am co-PI of the Simbiosys lab at Emory University. What I Do My research spans distributed systems and data science , and is motivated by three beliefs: That networked systems should just scale effortlessly That the best practical way to improve security is for people to really understand how things break, That clever use of technology can improve disease outbreak surveillance (think epidemics) Check out my projects for more information. My research is supported by an NSF CAREER award, contracts from the CDC , RANNIS grants and other funding from industry. I am also a co-founder and Chief Science Officer of Syndis , a growing multinational company focused on research and services in offensive information security. Here is a brief video by the Vocativ news network that shows us hacking . I have had the fortune of learning from some remarkable people, and I enjoy passing on what I know to my students. Some of my talks are online. What I Have Done Here are my Curriculum Vitae and Publications . Portugal, 2011 Puerto Rico, 2011 Lisbon, Portugal, 2011 Gsavatnalei, Iceland, 2012 Vestmannaeyjar, Iceland, 2013 Vestmannaeyjar, Iceland, 2013 Play Pause working with me Are you a great coder with an interest in large-scale systems or security? Or are you interested in diving into data science and some really cool public health, epidemiology or distributed systems datasets? Our Simbiosys lab at Emory has several open Ph.D. positionsfor promising students interested in these areas. Interested? Apply to Emory CSI . Are you a hacker? Whether you hack software or do hands on security, Syndis is hiring ! If you are a student at Emory University or Reykjavik University, feel free to stop by my office to discuss research projects. Just drop me a note! How To Reach Me Ymir Vigfusson Dept. of Mathematics and Computer Science Emory University 400 Dowman Drive, E416 Atlanta, GA 30322 E-mail: ymir ymsir : com (I read all e-mail, but I get more email than to which I can respond) Latest News Recent news Site powered by Weebly. Managed by Hostmonster 
