 Avani Wildani Current Projects Publications Calendar Teaching Software Project Hypatia Interests SSRC Page Vit (pdf) Professional Assistant Professor Emory University Department of Math and Computer Science avani@mathcs.emory.edu Office: W412 (on the math side) Office Hours: See Calendar Mailing Address: Dept. of Math and Computer Science Emory University 400 Dowman Dr., W401 Atlanta, GA 30322 Prospective Students I am actively recruiting both Ph.D. students and postdocs to my lab. If you are interested in working with me, please e-mail me directly with a brief description of your past work and current research interests. About Me As a scientist and an engineer, I am fascinated with information: what it is, how it is stored, how it is accessed, and how it leads to decisions. My doctoral research focused on how patterns in disk accesses allow a system to predict what data is commonly accessed together along with how this knowledge of momentary grouping can be used to make systems more available and power efficient. At Emory, my lab is exploring the dual of the storage problem. Whereas computer scientists have defined how to arrange storage to meet specific metrics such as fault tolerance and access speed, in neuroscience the metrics are observable but the system unknown. We are working to model information in the brain as a storage problem to better learn how we collect and interpret signals from our world, working towards a robust fault tolerance model for the brain. Other research interests in our lab include machine learning applications in neurobiology (particularly deep networks and topological data mining), archival storage, power management, privacy, and spatiotemporal modeling of storage workloads. My Erds number is 3. Press: Interdisciplinary Work at Emory , Emory Profile A bit about my work at Salk Undergraduate Recommendation Policy: (adapted from Amy Weldon) I don't write a reference for a student unless I can write a very positive and specific one. Therefore, your job as a college student is to become the kind of student professors can rave about in recommendations: hardworking, collegial, and intellectually inquisitive and honest. Consider maintaining relationships over time with professors, so that they know you well enough to write for you. Many juniors and seniors tell me they wish they had thought about this during their first year. This word cloud represents popular words in my published papers as of 2013. More details about my work are on my Research Page. Most Recent Publications For my latest publications, please see my Google Scholar Page . Computational Neuroscience A. Wildani , T. O. Sharpee, A Topologic Characterization of Natural Scenes , in submission A. Wildani , T. O. Sharpee, Persistent Homology for Characterizing Stimuli Response in the Primary Visual Cortex , Proceedings of the International Conference of Machine Learning (ICML) Workshop on Topology . June 2014. ( pdf ) Predictive Modeling A. Wildani , E. L. Miller. Can We Group Storage? Statistical Techniques to Identify Predictive Groupings in Storage System Accesses , ACM Transactions on Storage , August 2015. A. Wildani , E. L. Miller, I. F. Adams, D. D. E. Long. PERSES: Data Layout for Low Impact Failures , Proceedings of the 22th IEEE International Symposium on Modeling, Analysis, and Simulation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems (MASCOTS 2014) , September 2014. ( pdf ) A. Wildani , E. L. Miller, O. Rodeh, HANDS: A Heuristically Arranged Non-Backup In-line Deduplication System , Proceedings of the 29th IEEE International Conference in Data Engineering (ICDE 2013) , April 2013. ( pdf ) Workload Characterization A. Wildani and I. F. Adams. A Case for Rigorous Workload Classification , Proceedings of the 23rd IEEE International Symposium on Modeling, Analysis, and Simulation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems (MASCOTS 2015) , October 2015. ( pdf ) P. Gupta, A. Wildani , D. Rosenthal, E. L. Miller, et al. An Economic Perspective of Disk vs. Flash Media in Archival Storage , Proceedings of the 22th IEEE International Symposium on Modeling, Analysis, and Simulation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems (MASCOTS 2014) , September 2014. ( pdf ) A. Wildani , I. F. Adams, E. L. Miller, Single-Snapshot File System Analysis , Proceedings of the 21st IEEE International Symposium on Modeling, Analysis, and Simulation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems (MASCOTS 2013) August 2013. ( pdf (Short paper) ) All publications 
