 David Aspinall Professor, School of Informatics , University of Edinburgh , Scotland . Fellow of the Alan Turing Institute , London. Research Teaching Commercial Admin Research I'm part of: The Security and Privacy research group in Informatics The Cyber Security & Privacy Research Network in the University The Laboratory for Foundations of Computer Science (LFCS) The Mathematical Reasoning Group . My interests include: software security: especially certified security and proof-carrying code user authentication: passwords and challenge questions theorem proving: Proof Engineering , and proof language foundations programming and specification languages: type systems and modules See my publications on DBLP , Google Scholar or Edinburgh Research Explorer . There is also an old list by me of papers up to 2007. Research Projects Predicting the Security Behaviour of Mobile Apps is studying foundational models for describing application security behaviour, including efficient checking and semi-supervised machine learning to derive policies automatically. Detection by Learning Software Models is a network security project studying how to construct semantic models of software and devices which describe normal traffic patterns and logging behaviours, so anomalies stand out. Robustness as Evolvability is studying programmable networks and their evolution in response to cyber attacks. App Guarden examines foundations for improving security of application stores and devices. It builds on over a decade of research in the Mobility and Security Group , and brings new collaborations with Informatics colleagues working on compilers and machine learning. App Guarden finishes in March 2017, but we are examining several follow-on strands. Proof General provides a generic proof development environments for Coq and other theorem provers. I am conducting research into Proof Engineering and Hierarchical Proof . I'm also associated with a cool project on collaborative theorem proving called Proof Peer . The Integration and Interaction of Multiple Mathematical Reasoning Processes is a Platform Grant assoiated with the Mathematical Reasoning Group at Edinburgh, and groups at Heriot-Watt and Goldsmiths College. This grant brings together a range of innovative work connected with automated and interactive theorem proving and reasoning in general. See some more of my past projects . Research Students Current students: David Butler , who is working on crypto protocol verification topics at the Alan Turing Institute . Henry Clausen who is working on statistical methods for behavioural anomaly detection. If you're interested in studying for a PhD, drop me a line to discuss topics and check the Informatics S&P page , the Informatics PG page and the LFCS PG page . Former students: Joseph Hallett , whose thesis Capturing Mobile Security Policies Precisely was examined in November 2017. Joseph's examiners were Paul Jackson and Charles Morrisett. Daniel Franzen, whose thesis Quantitative Bounds on the Security-Critical Resource Consumption of JavaScript Apps was examined in July 2016. His examiners were Peter Thiemann and Alan Smaill. Gavin Keighren, whose thesis is entitled Restricting Information Flows in Security APIs via Typing and was examined in January 2014. Gavin's work was co-supervised with Graham Steel and Ian Stark . His examiners were Riccardo Focardi and James Cheney. Iain Whiteside whose PhD thesis Refactoring Proof was examined in May 2013. Iain's examiners were Markarius Wenzel and Perdita Stevens. Iain was co-supervised with Gudmund Grov and Lucas Dixon . Jaroslav Sevcik , whose PhD thesis Program Transformations in Weak Memory Models was examined in December 2008. Jaroslav's second supervisor was Colin Stirling. His examiners were Peter Sewell and John Longley. Robert Atkey , whose PhD thesis Substructural Simple Type Theories for Separation and In-place Update was examined in November 2005. His second supervisor was Ian Stark. His examiners were Nick Benton and John Power. images/valid-xhtml10.gif" align="right" alt="Valid XHTML 1.0!" border="0" height="31" width="88" /> --> David R. Aspinall , email david.aspinall@ed.ac.uk . Contact GPG key ( Instant HOWTO ) 
