 Julian Bradfield Email: jcb@inf.ed.ac.uk not jcb GnuPG public key (for routine matters)) Phone: +44 131 650 5998 Informatics Forum 10 Crichton St EDINBURGH EH8 9AB United Kingdom My office is IF 4.07. I am Reader in Computer Science here at the University of Edinburgh. My first degree was in Mathematics, from Cambridge (B.A. 1985, M.A. 1988), and after doing the conversion Diploma in Computer Science, I came to Edinburgh for my Ph.D. (awarded 1991). After completing this, I was a postdoc for a couple of years, and since 1992 I've been on the teaching staff. From 1997 to 2002, I was an EPSRC Advanced Research Fellow. Absences UoE users can see my schedule of planned absences . Research If you're interested in my research, please go to my research page . I am interested in supervising Ph.D. study in any of several areas: concurrency, modal and temporal logics, applications of set theory to computer science, application of concurrency to phonology. If you're interested in any of these, contact me, and see the Informatics Postgraduate pages for information about our postgraduate programme and the application procedure. Undergraduate Internships: The School no longer runs any undergraduate intern programme. Undergraduate/M.Sc. Teaching In 2018-19, I'm on sabbatical. Postgraduate/research courses The materials for the ESSLLI2012 course on Formal and Computational Approaches to Phonology are here: ESSLLI2012 . Administration On sabbatical. CSL'02 If you're looking for archived information on CSL'02, the CSL'02 home page is still available. TolkLang If you're looking for the TolkLang archive, please go to the TolkLang home page . Mah-Jong If you're looking for my Mah-Jong programs, please go to my personal site . Software The various bits of software I've written (and let loose) over the years are here . Printed Manuals We all use lots of software, for making presentations if nothing else. Some of it is so complex that the manuals are huge, and a challenge to read on screen. So sometimes I just want hard-copy. The manuals are mostly too big to print at the office, and who wants to manually bind a 400-page manual? But now in these days of print-on-demand, it's relatively straightforward to turn any manual into a decent quality and cheap book. So now I do this with manuals I would once have printed. Having made the once-off effort, anybody else can then order the books too, so why not make them available? If you want to look at my list of manuals, go to my manuals page. 
