 Bob Fisher Click image for 3D Video: See the University of Edinburgh online research video collection . Here's mine: Prof. Robert Fisher has been an academic in the School of Informatics (originally in the former Department of Artificial Intelligence) at University of Edinburgh since 1984 and a full Professor since 2003. He received his PhD from University of Edinburgh (1987), investigating computer vision in the former Department of Artificial Intelligence. His previous degrees are a BS with honors (Mathematics) from California Institute of Technology (1974) and a MS (Computer Science) from Stanford University (1978). He worked as a software engineer for 5 years before returning to study for his PhD. Research Overview Publication List . Google Scholar List . University PURE research activity entry . He has been researching 3D scene understanding since 1982, and has worked on model based object recognition, range image analysis and parallel vision algorithms. The main topics of his recent research are: variations on the interpretation tree model matching algorithm, automatic model acquisition applied to engineering objects and buildings, surface model-based object recognition, range image analysis, iconic image analysis, and humpback whalesong analysis. This research is conducted in the Machine Vision Unit . He is or has been the principal investigator of these projects: a partner in euCognition: European Network for the Advancement of Artificial Cognitive Systems DERMOFIT : A cognitive prosthesis to aid focal skin lesion diagnosis (Wellcome Foundation funded research project). You might be interested in our Spotnostic skin cancer diagnostic assistant . ChiRoPing : Dynamic shape capture of bats using a high speed 3D range sensor Fish4Knowledge : investigating knowledge extraction from very large datasets (of fish), including its SecondLife Exhibition Hall TrimBot2020 : investigating the robotics and computer vision needed by a gardening robot for rose, hedge and topiary trimming His current PhD students and research staff are: Adam Clayden Hanz Cuevas Vlasquez Nanbo Li Can Pu Radim Tylecek His PhD graduates are: Emilio Agustin Molina, Cigdem Beyan, Edvaldo Bispo, Scott Blunsden, Dibio Borges, Jay Bradley, Toby Breckon, Li Dong Cai, Michael Cameron-Jones, Helmut Cantzler, Andrew Fitzgibbon, Herman Gomes, Luis Horna Carranza, Xuan (Phoenix) Huang, Howard Hughes, Xiang Li, Tim Lukins, Steven McDonagh, Maurizio Pilu, Rowland Sillito, Yaoru Sun, and David Wren. Look here for information about applying to study for a PhD or MSc in Informatics at Edinburgh. The School is recruiting PhD students (mainly UK) into their EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Robotics and Autonomous Systems , EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Data Science , and EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Pervasive Parallelism . Internships, Visitors, Jobs and PhD Places PhD: we are recruiting computer vision students for 2018/19 entry. Jobs: no vision jobs are open at the moment Internships: if you can self-fund, then we may have room for visiting interns. Visitors: If you have a fellowship paying your own salary plus visitor fees, then we may have room for visiting scientists. Main administrative responsibilities Nothing while on sabbatical Main teaching responsibilities Advanced Vision Advanced Vision (by Distance Learning) for the MSc and Undergraduate Joint Honour degree courses. Popular image analysis datasets/databases BEHAVE Interacting Person Video Data with markup CAVIAR project video sequences with tracking and behavior ground truth Edinburgh overhead camera person tracking dataset HIPR2 Image Catalogue of different types of images Time-Lapse Videos of a Building Site Research community contributions CVonline , The Evolving, Distributed, Non-Proprietary, On-Line Compendium of Computer Vision, including its listing of computer vision datasets , software and books . The current version of HIPR2 : Hypertext Image Processing Reference. The support web site for the second edition of the Dictionary of Computer Vision and Image Processing . He was the Chair (2007-2010) of the Education Committee of the International Association for Pattern Recognition , which has produced online education resources . He is currently the Chair (2016-2018) of the IAPR's Industrial Liaison Committee. He has been elected an IAPR Fellow . Some thoughts on AI / Artificial Intelligence: R. B. Fisher, AI and Cinema - Does artificial insanity rule? , unpublished, 2002. R. B. Fisher, Is your robot afraid of dying (and why you should care)? , unpublished, 2017. R. B. Fisher et al , Evidence contribution to the UK House of Lords inquiry on Artificial Intelligence , 2017. Other things that might interest you A study on the Representations of Artificial Intelligence in Cinema An online Dictionary of Computer Graphics My professorial inaugural lecture . A short video (10 min) by Meirul Din, on "How seriously should we take the hype about AI?" , which includes an interview of me. (185Mb) All Thanks to Turing - a robot gives thanks to Alan Turing (video) as part of Take Tea With Turing , a celebration by Victoria Adams. My favourite MP3 mashup - Bob Rocks! (by James Fairlie). The University now has a set of 500+ one minute research-in-a-nutshell videos and mine (about the Chiroping project) is here . Some suggestions on introducing talks . You might also be interested in: Pointless Powerpoint , PowerPoint Is Evil Do you worry that you might be an Academic Imposter? You are not alone! We're surrounded by hugely talented people and we only know a little bit more about one specialized topic. Except that everyone feels this way. See: Imposter Syndrome in Academia , Impostor syndrome . Our skin cancer research has led to the DERMOFIT skin cancer training and diagnostic assistant iPad app in partnership with Simedics . Spanish translation of biography (Science for Everyone) Some interesting recent undergraduate and MSc theses: J. Aizeboje, Ceilidh dance recognition from an overhead camera , MSc dissertation, 2016. L. Alkurdi, Fuzzy Control of a Robotic Blimp , MSc dissertation, 2011. C. Cobzarenco, Quantifying Skin Lesion Change over a Short Period , Undergraduate dissertation, 2013. L. Danev, Fruit and vegetable classification from live video , Undergraduate dissertation, 2017. A. Ferguson, Automated Classification of Fish Species from CCTV Footage , MSc dissertation, 2014. P. Green, Investigation into the use of surf web cameras to improve the accuracy of forecasting wave behavior , Undergraduate dissertation, 2017. B. Majecka, Statistical models of pedestrian behaviour in the Forum , MSc dissertation, 2009. S. McDonagh, Skin Cancer Surface Shape Based Classification , Undergraduate dissertation, 2008. G. Papadimitriou, Psychophysics of Autostereogram Videos: Blur, Contrast and Repetition Period , MSc dissertation, 2010. G. Petkov, Tracking and annotating a chess game , Undergraduate dissertation, 2013. J. L. Reyes Ortiz, Probabilistic Time Lapse Video , MSc dissertation, 2008. C. Shotton, The Spam Companion: An Investigation Into Counter Spam Measures , Undergraduate dissertation, 2012. C. Tarlungianu, Detection of Road Gully Drains , Undergraduate dissertation, 2015. Other people you might want to contact over specific issues Informatics Secretary Inst. of Perception, Action and Behaviour Secretary Contact Details School of Informatics University of Edinburgh 1.11 Bayes Centre 47 Potterrow Edinburgh EH8 9BT UK TEL: 44-131-651-3441 plus code: WRW7+54 Email: Here is a map to my office in the Bayes Centre. Enter via the main entrance in the courtyard off of Crichton Street. Go up the stairs/elevator 1 floor. My office is 1.11. Here is a Google map link with a streetside view. Date of last change to this page: 02/18/2019 15:03:07 
