 Jacques Fleuriot Wir mssen wissen. Wir werden wissen. Research Publications Quick CV Grants Students Tools As you like it Skip to content Home Admin Research Teaching Publications Quick CV Grants Students Tools AYLI Random Text Machines take me by surprise with great frequency. - Alan Turing WorkflowFM WorkflowFM.com and WorkflowFM.org describe ongoing work on formal modelling and verification for healthcare. Check them out! Past Events I was the Programme Chair for the 13th International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Symbolic Computation (AISC 2018) held in Suzhou, China. I gave an invited talk at the 12th International Conference on Automated Deduction in Geometry, ADG 2018. The conference was in memory of the influential Chinese mathematician Wen-tsn Wu. I was the Conference Chair for the 10th edition of the Conference on Intelligent Computer Mathematics ( CICM ) in Edinburgh. Our platform grant on the Integration and Interaction of Multiple Mathematical Reasoning Processes ( EP/N014758/1 ) was renewed by EPSRC! WorkflowFM was present at Engage, Invest, Exploit (EIE) 2016 Exhibition, the premier showcase in Scotland for investors and entrepreneurs. A special issue of the AMAI on Geometric Reasoning edited by J. Fleuriot and T. Ida appeared in August 2015. Reader in Automated Reasoning Director of Institute, CISA Informatics Forum University of Edinburgh 10 Crichton Street EH8 9AB United Kingdom Office: IF 2.15 Tel: +44 131 650 9342 Fax: +44 131 651 1426 New: EIT Digital Project funded Digiflow Digitizing Industrial Workflow, Monitoring and Optimization has received a second round of funding from EIT Digital (01/2019-12/2019). The WorkflowFM team (Papapanagiotou, Vaughan and Fleuriot)will continue to work on the transfer of its formal-methods based technology to a real-world context involving the modelling and deployment of industrial workflows tracking shopfloor assets and workforce. Project Partners: FBK CREATE-NET,Reply, ThinkINside. I am theDirector of the Centre for Intelligent Systems and their Applications , which is part ofthe School of Informatics at the university of Edinburgh. My main field of research lies in interactive theorem proving and its use in areas such as formalized mathematics and formal verification. I am particularly interested in the investigation of mathematical reasoning both historical and contemporary using proof assistants. Opportunities: PhD in AI for Healthcare: Are you interested in developing and applying AI techniques ranging from formal verification to machine learning to real-world healthcare processes? If so, contact me.Funding may be available for good students. PhD in Formal Modelling and Verification for AI: I am interested in supervising PhD students who wish to explore and develop the foundations of AI algorithms and approaches, e.g. machine learning (including Deep Learning) and logic-based learning, via formal modelling and verification. Candidates will needto have a strong background in mathematics, interest in computational logic/theorem proving and experience in machine learning and other aspects of AI. Funding is available for goodapplicants. PhD in FormalisedMathematics for Physics: I am looking for research students interested in the formalization of physics and its applications to the real world (e.g. robotics and autonomous navigation). Funding may be available for good students. Drop me an email, if youre interested. PhD in Collaborative Theorem Proving: I am interested in supervising students on the application of machine learning and social computation to interactive theorem proving. Funding may be available for good students. If this sounds like something youd like to beinvolved in, get in touch! Some of my latest research interests: AI in healthcare, with an emphasis on the modelling of computer- and human-based processes and their interactions using AI techniques. More information is available here . Formal verification for AI, especially with regards to machine learning. Formalised mathematics: I am working on the formal reconstruction in the theorem prover Isabelle of proofs from Euler s famous Introductio in analysin infinitorum (Introduction to the Analysis of the Infinite), first published in 1748. I am currently workingon various concepts related to the notion of Collaborative Mechanical Theorem Proving. Recent Working Papers: Papapanagiotou P. and Fleuriot J. (2018). Correct by Construction Resource-based Process Composition. CoRR abs/1803.02613 Obua S., Scott P. and Fleuriot J. (2017). Local Lexing. CoRR abs/1702.03277 . Scott P., Obua S. and Fleuriot J. (2017). Compiling Purely Functional Structured Programs. CoRR abs/1703.05227 . Fleuriot J., Obua S. and Scott P. (2016). Social Network Processes in the Isabelle and Coq Theorem Proving Communities. CoRRabs/1609.07127 Latest Refereed Publications : Papapanagiotou P. and Fleuriot J. (2019). A Pragmatic, Scalable Approach to Correct-by-construction Process Composition Using Classical Linear Logic Inference. To appear in the post-proceedings of Logic-Based Program Synthesis and Transformation (LOPSTR), LNCS Springer. Narboux J., Janicic P. and Fleuriot J. (2018). Computer-assisted Theorem Proving in Synthetic Geometry. Chapter in the Handbook of Geometric Constraint Systems Principles (ISBN 9781498738910), 21-44, Chapman and Hall/CRC, July 2018. Jiang Y., Papapanagiotou P. and Fleuriot J. (2018). Machine Learning for Automated Inductive Theorem Proving. Proceedings of the 13th International Artificial Intelligence and Symbolic Computation (AISC) Conference 2018, Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence, Volume 11110, 87-103. Comments are closed. Powered by WordPress and Sliding Door theme. 
