 Skip to content Bjrn Franke Software Transformation Driven By Dynamic Information Menu About Me Research Projects Research Group Publications Teaching Contact News Scroll down to content About Me I am a Reader in the School of Informatics at the University of Edinburgh , whereI am a member of the Institute for Computing Systems Architecture , the Compiler and Architecture Design (CArD) group ,the ARM Centre of Excellence and the Edinburgh Huawei Lab. Working with me If you are interested in working with me, e.g. as PhD or MRes student, please get in touch . Fully funded places are available in the Edinburgh Centre for Doctoral Training in Pervasive Parallelism ! Research interests I am broadly interested in software transformation , mostly for performance optimisation and parallelisation, but I have also looked at various techniques to e.g. reduce code size on embedded processors. Many transformations a compiler can apply are closely coupled to some kind of analysis determining whether the transformation is safe, i.e. it doesnt break the program, and profitable, i.e. the program runs faster as a result of applying the transformation. Static analyses, which do not execute the program, but reason about it using some fancy maths, are often conservative and return statements such as dont know or maybe. Obviously, this is not helpful for program transformation. Instead, we could either improve static analyses, but this is tricky (and often in fact intractable), or we could incorporate dynamic information obtained from actually running the program. And this is what I am interested in! Of course, there are lots of interesting problems to solve, e.g. how can we make this dynamic analysis safe and make sure we dont miss some corner case, or how do we make it fast as we dont want to spend a lot of time analysing the program at runtime when all we want to do is to actually reduce the programs execution time. All of this has a number of applications, for example to drive better code optimisations applied by a compiler, to enable more aggressive parallelisation of sequential legacy code or to improve performance of just-in-time compilers in dynamic binary translators (also known as instruction set simulators or emulators). Short biography Since Aug. 11: Reader (US equiv. Associate Professor) School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh Sept. 04 July 11: Lecturer (US equiv. Assistant Professor) School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh Sept. 03 Aug. 04: Research Associate School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh Oct. 00 May 04: PhD in Computer Science School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh Oct. 99 Sept. 00: MSc in Computer Science School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh Oct. 92 Sept. 99: Dipl.-Inf. in Computer Science Fachbereich Informatik, Universitt Dortmund PhD Studentships The School has a number of competitive studentships for PhD study . I am interested in taking on PhD students to work on the following areas: Dynamic Program Analysis and Transformation , including(Semi-)Automatic Parallelisation of Legacy Applications, andIdentification of Structured Parallelism, including Algorithmic Skeletons Code Generation and Optimisation , especially for Embedded Platforms Just-in-Time Compilation Instruction Set Simulation, including Dynamic Binary Translation and Full-System Simulation Performance Estimation in Simulators Hardware/Software Design Space Exploration Please do contact me for further information on any of these areas. If you are sending me an informal enquiry, please put the term PhD Application in the title of the email. Please also include a CV and a brief statement of research interest. Informal enquiries do not constitute an application, and I ignore all unpersonalised emails (if you are serious about a PhD, you send individual enquiries not mass mailed ones). To apply you should use the usual University of Edinburgh application . However I do recommend that you back up any application with an informal enquiry. January 1 is considered to be a first cutoff for applications. Though I do accept applications after that date, I do recommend you try to apply before that date if you can as it makes it easier to get funding. Research Group Virtually all my work is the result of a collaborative group effort and would not be possible without the various people working with me. This includes mostly PhD students and Post-Doctoral Researchers, but also MSc and undergraduate students and colleagues across ICSA . PostDocs and Students Post-Doctoral Researchers Harry Wagstaff Dynamic Binary Translation, Architecture Description Languages, and High Speed Simulation Tom Spink Multi-Core In-Memory Database on a Chip (McDoC) PhD Students Alexandr Maramzim CDT Pervasive Parallelism (MSc stage) Kuba Kaszyk Accurate Simulation of Mobile GPUs Chris Vasiladiotis Parallelisation Using Commutativity Analysis Chad Verbowski Data Center Optimizations Martin Kristien Multi-Core Processor Simulation Former PostDocs and Students Bruno Bodin Yale-NUS Stan Manilov (PhD, 2017) Google, Zrich Analysis and Transformation of Legacy Code Volker Seeker (PhD, 2017) University of Lancaster User Experience Driven CPU Frequency Scaling on Mobile Devices Towards Better Energy Efficiency Tom Spink (PhD, 2016) University of Edinburgh Efficient Cross-architecture Hardware Virtualisation Stephen Kyle (PhD, 2015) ARM Applications of Information Sharing for Code Generation in Process Virtual Machines Harry Wagstaff (PhD, 2015) University of Edinburgh From High Level Architecture Descriptions to Fast Instruction Set Simulators Daniel Powell (PhD, 2015) Lightweight Speculative Support for Aggressive Auto-Parallelisation Tools Joseph Seaton (MSc by Research, 2015) Partial Caching of Code and Heap in a JIT-compiler based Javascript Engine Tobias Edler von Koch (PhD, 2014) Qualcomm Innovation Center Automated Detection of Structured Coarse-Grained Parallelism in Sequential Legacy Applications Igor Bhm (PhD, 2013) Synopsys Speeding Up Dynamic Compilation: Concurrent and Parallel Dynamic Compilation Alastair Murray (PhD, 2012) Virginia Tech Customising Compilers for Customisable Processors Damon Fenacci (PhD, 2012) OneOverZero Compiler-Driven Data Layout Transformations for Network Applications George Tournavitis (PhD, 2011) Intel Research Profile-Driven Parallelisation of Sequential Programs Gordon Parke (MSc by Research, 2010) Cisco ThermOS: An Energy Efficient Real-Time Operating System For An Ultra-low Power Embedded Device Mike Williams (MSc by Research, 2009) Coherent Logix Power-Aware Compiler Design Publications Mostof my publications can be found on either Google Scholar or my ACM author page .However, if you prefer an overview by publication category and in chronological order you may wish to browse through the list below, which I try to keep reasonably up-to-date. Book Chapters Bjrn Franke. C Compilers and Code Optimization for DSPs. In: Shuvra Bhattacharyya, Ed Deprette, Jarmo Takala, and Rainer Leupers (editors): Handbook on Signal Processing Systems , Springer Verlag, New York, 2013. Bjrn Franke. C Compilers and Code Optimization for DSPs. In: Shuvra Bhattacharyya, Ed Deprette, Jarmo Takala, and Rainer Leupers (editors): Handbook on Signal Processing Systems , Springer Verlag, New York, 2010. Nigel Topham, Bjrn Franke, Daniel Jones and Daniel Powell. Adaptive High-speed Processor Simulation. In: Olivier Temam and Rainer Leupers (editors): Processor and System-On-Chip Simulation , Springer Verlag, New York, 2010. Conference Proceedings Bjrn Franke, Youfeng Wu and Fabrice Rastello. Proceedings of the 2016 International Symposium on Code Generation and Optimization (CGO16) , Barcelona, Spain. March 12 18, 2016. Bjrn Franke. Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Compiler Construction (CC 2015) , Held as Part of the European Joint Conferences on Theory and Practice of Software, ETAPS 2015, London, UK, April 11-18, 2015. Bjrn Franke and Jingling Xue. Proceedings of the SIGPLAN/SIGBED Conference on Languages, Compilers and Tools for Embedded Systems 2013 , LCTES 13, Seattle, WA, USA, June 20-21, 2013. Journal Articles Sajad Saeedi, Bruno Bodin, Harry Wagstaff, Andy Nisbet, Luigi Nardi, John Mawer, Nicolas Melot, Oscar Palomar, Emanuele Vespa, Tom Spink, Cosmin Gorgovan, Andrew Webb, James Clarkson, Erik Tomusk, Thomas Debrunner, Kuba Kaszyk, Pablo Gonzalez-de-Aledo, Andrey Rodchenko, Graham Riley, Christos Kotselidis, Bjorn Franke, Michael F. P. OBoyle, Andrew J. Davison, Paul H. J. Kelly, Mikel Lujan, and Steve Furber. Navigating the Landscape for Real-time Localisation and Mapping for Robotics Virtual and Augmented Reality. Proceedings of the IEEE, 2018. Stanislav Manilov, Bjrn Franke, Anthony Magrath, Cedric Andrieu Free Rider: A Source-Level Transformation Tool for Retargeting Platform-Specific Intrinsic Functions . ACM Transactions on Embedded Computing Systems (TECS), Volume 16, Issue 2, January 2017. Tom Spink, Harry Wagstaff, Bjrn Franke Hardware-Accelerated Cross-Architecture Full-System Virtualization . ACM Transactions on Architecture and Code Optimization (TACO), Volume 13 Issue 4, December 2016. Zheng Wang, Georgios Tournavitis, Bjrn Franke, Michael F. P. OBoyle. Integrating profile-driven parallelism detection and machine-learning-based mapping . ACM Transactions on Architecture and Code Optimization (TACO), Volume 11, Issue 1, February 2014. O. Almer, I. Bhm, T. Edler von Koch, B. Franke, S. Kyle, V. Seeker, C. Thompson, and N. Topham. A Parallel Dynamic Binary Translator for Efficient Multi-Core Simulation . International Journal of Parallel Programming, April 2013, Volume 41, Issue 2, pp 212-235. Alastair Murray and Bjrn Franke. Adaptive Source-Level Data Assignment to Dual Memory Banks . ACM Transactions on Embedded Computing Systems (TECS), Volume 11S, Issue 1, June 2012. Bjrn Franke. Statistical Performance Modeling in Functional Instruction Set Simulators . ACM Transactions on Embedded Computing Systems (TECS), Volume 11S, Issue 1, June 2012. Richard V. Bennett, Alastair Murray, Bjrn Franke and Nigel Topham. Code Transformation and Instruction Set Extensions. ACM Transactions on Embedded Computing Systems (TECS), Vol. 8, Issue 4, July 2009. Bjrn Franke and Michael OBoyle. A Complete Compiler Approach to Auto-Parallelizing C Programs for Multi-DSP Systems. IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems (TPDS), Vol. 16, No. 3, pp 234-245, March 2005. Bjrn Franke and Michael OBoyle. Array Recovery and High-Level Transformations for DSP Applications. ACM Transactions on Embedded Computing Systems (TECS), Vol. 2, Issue 2, pp 132-162, May 2003. Conference Papers Martin Kristien, Tom Spink,Harry Wagstaff, Bjrn Franke, Igor Bhm, and Nigel Topham. Mitigating JIT Compilation Latency in Virtual Execution Environments. To Appear In: Proceedings of the15th ACM SIGPLAN/SIGOPS International Conference on Virtual Execution Environments (VEE19),Providence, Rhode Island, USA, 2019. Kuba Kaszyk, Harry Wagstaff, Tom Spink, Bjrn Franke, Mike OBoyle, Bruno Bodin and Henrik Uhrenholt. Full-System Simulation of Mobile CPU/GPUPlatforms. To Appear In: Proceedings of the2019 IEEE International Symposium on Performance Analysis of Systems and Software, Madison, WI, USA, 2019. James Renwick, Tom Spink, and Bjrn Franke. Low-cost Deterministic C++ Exceptions for Embedded Systems. To Appear In:Proceedings of the 2019 International Conference on Compiler Construction (CC19), Washington, DC, USA, 2019. Chad Verbowski, Paolo Costa, Hugh Leather, Bjrn Franke, and Ed Thayer. Right-sizing Server Capacity Headroom for Global Online Services . In: Proceedings of the 38th IEEE International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS), Vienna, 2018. Tobias J.K. Edler von Koch, Stanislav Manilov,Christos Vasiladiotis, Murray Cole, and Bjrn Franke. Towards a Compiler Analysis for Parallel Algorithmic Skeletons . In: Proceedings of the 2018 International Conference on Compiler Construction (CC18), Vienna, 2018. Stanislav Manilov, Christos Vasiladiotis, and Bjrn Franke. Generalized Profile-Guided Iterator Recognition . In: Proceedings of the 2018 International Conference on Compiler Construction (CC18), Vienna, 2018. Harry Wagstaff, Bruno Bodin, Tom Spink and Bjrn Franke. SimBench: A Portable Benchmarking Methodology for Full-System Simulators . In: Proceedings of the International Symposium on Performance Analysis of Systems and Software (ISPASS), 2017. Bruno Bodin, Luigi Nardi, M Zeeshan Zia, Harry Wagstaff, Govind Sreekar Shenoy, Murali Emani, John Mawer, Christos Kotselidis, Andy Nisbet, Mikel Lujan, Bjrn Franke, Paul Kelly and Michael OBoyle. Integrating Algorithmic Parameters into Benchmarking and Design Space Exploration in Dense 3D Scene Understanding . In: Proceedings of the 25th Conference on Parallel Architectures and Compilation Techniques (PACT16), Haifa, Israel, September 11-15, 2016. Tom Spink, Harry Wagstaff, and Bjrn Franke. Efficient Asynchronous Interrupt Handling in a Full-System Instruction Set Simulator . Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Languages, Compilers, Tools and Theory for Embedded Systems (LCTES16), Santa Barbara, California, USA, June 13-14, 2016. Luna Backes, Alejandro Rico and Bjrn Franke. Experiences in Speeding Up Computer Vision Applications on Mobile Computing Platforms. Proceedings of the International Symposium on Systems, Architectures, Modeling, and Simulation (SAMOS XV), Samos, Greece, July 20-23, 2015. Tom Spink, Harry Wagstaff, Bjrn Franke and Nigel Topham. Efficient Dual-ISA Support in a Retargetable, Asynchronous Dynamic Binary Translator. Proceedings of the International Symposium on Systems, Architectures, Modeling, and Simulation (SAMOS XV), Samos, Greece, July 20-23, 2015. Stanislav Manilov, Bjrn Franke, Anthony Magrath, Cedric Andrieu. Free Rider: A Tool for Retargeting Platform-Specific Intrinsic Functions. Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Languages, Compilers, Tools and Theory for Embedded Systems (LCTES15), Portland, Oregon, USA, June 18-19, 2015. Stephen Kyle, Hugh Leather, Bjrn Franke, Dave Butcher, Stuart Monteith. Application of Domain-aware Binary Fuzzing to Aid Android Virtual Machine Testing. Proceedings of the 11th ACM SIGPLAN/SIGOPS International Conference on Virtual Execution Environments (VEE15), Istanbul, Turkey, March 14-15, 2015. Volker Seeker, Pavlos Petoumenos, Hugh Leather, Bjrn Franke. Measuring QoE of Interactive Workloads and Characterising Frequency Governors on Mobile Devices. Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE International Symposium on Workload Characterization (IISWC15), Raleigh, North Carolina, USA, October 2014. Harry Wagstaff, Tom Spink, Bjrn Franke. Automated ISA Branch Coverage Analysis and Test Case Generation for Retargetable Instruction Set Simulators. Proceedings of the International Conference on Compilers, Architecture, and Synthesis for Embedded Systems (CASES 2014), New Dehli, India, October 2014. Tom Spink, Harry Wagstaff, Bjrn Franke, Nigel Topham. Efficient Code Generation in a Region-Based Dynamic Binary Translator. Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Languages, Compilers and Tools for Embedded Systems (LCTES 2014), Edinburgh, June 2014. Tobias J.K. Edler von Koch, Bjrn Franke, Pranav Bhandarkar, Anshuman Dasgupta. Exploiting Function Similarity for Code Size Reduction. Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Languages, Compilers and Tools for Embedded Systems (LCTES 2014), Edinburgh, June 2014. Zheng Wang, Daniel Christopher Powell, Bjrn Franke, Michael F.P. OBoyle. Exploitation of GPUs for the Parallelisation of Probably Parallel Legacy Code. Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Compiler Construction (ETAPS CC), 5-13 April 2014, Grenoble, France. Tobias J.K. Edler von Koch and Bjrn Franke. Variability of Data Dependences and Control Flow. Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE International Symposium on Performance Analysis of Systems and Software (ISPASS 2014), March 23-25, 2014. Harry Wagstaff and Bjrn Franke. Early Partial Evaluation in a JIT-compiled, Retargetable Instruction Set Simulator Generated from a High-Level Architecture Description. Proceedings of the 50th Design Automation Conference (DAC 2013), Austin, TX, June 2013. Tobias Edler von Koch and Bjrn Franke. Limits of Region-Based Dynamic Binary Parallelization. Proceedings of the 2013 ACM SIGPLAN/SIGOPS International Conference on Virtual Execution Environments (VEE13), Houston, TX, March 2013. Alastair Murray and Bjrn Franke. Compiling for Automatically Generated Instruction Set Extensions. Proceedings of the 2012 International Symposium on Code Generation and Optimization . San Jose, US, March 31 April 4, 2012. K.Sundararajan, V.Porpodas, T.Jones, N.Topham and B.Franke. Cooperative Partitioning: Energy-Efficient Cache Partitioning for High-Performance CMPs. Proceedings of the 18th International Symposium on High Performance Computer Architecture (HPCA12), New Orleans, US, February 25-29, 2012. Stephen C. Kyle, Igor Bhm, Bjrn Franke, Hugh Leather, Nigel P. Topham. Efficiently parallelizing instruction set simulation of embedded multi-core processors using region-based just-in-time dynamic binary translation. Proceedings of the Conference on Languages, Compilers, Tools and Theory for Embedded Systems (LCTES12), Beijing, China, June 12-13, 2012. Oscar Almer, Igor Bhm, Tobias Edler von Koch, Bjrn Franke, Stephen Kyle, Volker Seeker, Christopher Thompson and Nigel Topham. Scalable Multi-Core Simulation Using Parallel Dynamic Binary Translation . Proceedings of the International Symposium on Systems, Architectures, Modeling, and Simulation (SAMOS11), Samos, Greece, July 19-22, 2011. Oscar Almer, Miles Gould, Bjrn Franke, Nigel P. Topham. Selecting the Optimal System: Automated Design of Application-Specific Systems-on-Chip. Proceedings of NoCArc@MICRO 2011. Igor Bhm, Tobias Edler von Koch, Bjrn Franke and Nigel Topham. Generalized Just-In-Time Trace Compilation using a Parallel Task Farm in a Dynamic Binary Translator . Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN 2011 Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation (PLDI11), San Jose, CA, June 2011. Oscar Almer, Nigel Topham, and Bjrn Franke. A Learning-based Approach to the Automated Design of MPSoC Networks . Proceedings of ARCS 2011 Architecture of Computing Systems, 22-25 February 2011, Como, Italy. Georgios Tournavitis and Bjrn Franke. Semi-Automatic Extraction and Exploitation of Hierarchical Pipeline Parallelism Using Profiling Information. Proceedings of the International Conference on Parallel Architectures and Compilation Techniques (PACT 10), Vienna, Austria, September 11-15, 2010. Igor Bhm, Bjrn Franke and Nigel Topham. Cycle-Accurate Performance Modelling in an Ultra-Fast Just-In-Time Dynamic Binary Translation Instruction Set Simulator. Proceedings of the International Symposium on Systems, Architectures, Modeling, and Simulation (SAMOS10), Samos, Greece, July 19-22, 2010. Tobias Edler von Koch, Igor Bhm, and Bjrn Franke. Integrated Instruction Selection and Register Allocation for Compact Code Generation Exploiting Freeform Mixing of 16- and 32-bit Instructions. Proceedings of the International Symposium on Code Generation and Optimization (CGO), Toronto, Canada, 2010. Damon Fenacci, Bjrn Franke, and John Thomson. Workload Characterization Supporting the Development of Domain-Specific Compiler Optimizations Using Decision Trees for Data Mining. Proceedings of the 13th International Workshop on Software & Compilers for Embedded Systems, SCOPES, 2010. John Thomson, Michael OBoyle, Grigori Fursin and Bjrn Franke. Reducing Training Time and Calculating Confidence in a Machine Learning-based Compiler. Proceedings of 22nd International Workshop on Languages and Compilers for Parallel Computers (LCPC09), Newark, Delaware, 2009. Daniel Powell and Bjrn Franke. Using Continuous Statistical Machine Learning to Enable High-Speed Performance Prediction in Hybrid Instruction-/Cycle-Accurate Instruction Set Simulators. Proceedings of the International Conference on Hardware/Software Codesign and System Synthesis (CODES-ISSS), Grenoble, 2009. Georgios Tournavitis, Zheng Wang, Bjrn Franke and Michael OBoyle. Towards a Holistic Approach to Auto-Parallelization: Integrating Profile-Driven Parallelism Detection and Machine-Learning Based Mapping. Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN 2009 Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation (PLDI) , Dublin, 2009. Alastair Murray and Bjrn Franke. Using Genetic Programming for Source-Level Data Assignment to Dual Memory Banks. Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Statistical and Machine Learning Approaches to Architecture and Compilation (SMART09), Paphos, Cyprus, 2009. Oscar Almer, Richard Bennett, Igor Bhm, Alastair Murray, Xinhao Qu, Marcela Zuluaga, Bjrn Franke, Nigel Topham. An End-to-End Design Flow for Automated Instruction Set Extension and Complex Instruction Selection based on GCC. Proceedings of the First International Workshop on GCC Research Opportunities (GROW09) , Paphos, Cyprus, 2009. Georgios Tournavitis and Bjrn Franke. Towards Automatic Profile-Driven Parallelization of Embedded Multimedia Applications. Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Programmability Issues for Multi-Core Computers (MULTIPROG) , Paphos, Cyprus, 2009. Jonathan Frye and Bjrn Franke. PDP Pen Driven Programming . Proceedings of the BCS Human-Computer Interaction (HCI 2008) Conference, September 2008, Liverpool, United Kingdom. Bjrn Franke. Fast Cycle-Approximate Instruction Set Simulation. Proceedings of the Workshop on Software & Compilers for Embedded Systems (SCOPES 2008) , March 2008, Munich, Germany. Alastair Murray and Bjrn Franke. Fast Source-Level Data Assignment to Dual Memory Banks. Proceedings of the Workshop on Software & Compilers for Embedded Systems (SCOPES 2008) , March 2008, Munich, Germany. Shun Long, Grigori Fursin, and Bjrn Franke. A Cost-Aware Parallel Workload Allocation Approach Based on Machine Learning Techniques. Proceedings of the 2007 IFIP International Conference on Network and Parallel Computing (NPC 2007), September 2007, Dalian, China. Richard Bennett, Alastair Murray, Bjrn Franke, and Nigel Topham. Combining Source-to-Source Transformations and Processor Instruction Set Extension for the Automated Design-Space Exploration of Embedded Systems. Proceedings of ACM SIGPLAN/SIGBED 2007 Conference on Languages Compilers, and Tools for Embedded Systems (LCTES 07), June 2007, San Diego, USA. Christophe Dubach, John Cavazos, Bjrn Franke, Michael OBoyle, Grigori Fursin, and Olivier Temam. Fast Compiler Optimisation Evaluation Using Code-Feature Based Performance Prediction. Proceedings of the ACM International Conference on Computing Frontiers, May 2007, Ischia, Italy. Edwin Bonilla, John Cavazos, Bjrn Franke, Michael OBoyle, John Thomson, and Chris Williams. Using Machine Learning to Focus Iterative Optimization. Proceedings of the 4th Annual International Symposium on Code Generation and Optimization (CGO), March 2006, New York, USA. Bjrn Franke, Michael OBoyle, John Thomson, and Grigori Fursin. Probabilistic Source-Level Optimisation of Embedded Programs. Proceedings of the 2005 Conference on Languages, Compilers and Tools for Embedded Systems (LCTES05), June 15 17, 2005, Chicago, IL, USA. Bjrn Franke and Michael OBoyle. Combining Program Recovery, Auto-Parallelisation and Locality Analysis for C Programs on Multi-Processor Embedded Systems. Proceedings of the 11th Workshop on Compilers for Parallel Computers (CPC 2004), July 7 9, 2004, Chiemsee, Germany. Bjrn Franke and Michael OBoyle. Combining Program Recovery, Auto-Parallelisation and Locality Analysis for C Programs on Multi-Processor Embedded Systems. Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Parallel Architectures and Compilation Techniques (PACT03), September 27 October 01, 2003, New Orleans, Louisiana. Bjrn Franke and Michael OBoyle. Compiler Parallelization of C programs for Multi-core DSPs with Multiple Address Spaces. Proceedings of the 1st IEEE/ACM/IFIP international conference on Hardware/Software Codesign & System Synthesis (CODES-ISSS 2003), October 01 03, 2003, Newport Beach, CA, USA. Bjrn Franke and Michael OBoyle. Array Recovery and High Level Transformations for DSP Applications. Proceedings of the 10th International Workshop on Compilers for Parallel Computers (CPC 2003), January 8-10, 2003, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Bjrn Franke and Michael OBoyle. An Empirical Evaluation of High Level Transformations for Embedded Processors. Proceedings of the International Conference on Compilers, Architecture and Synthesis for Embedded Systems (CASES), November 16-17, 2001, Atlanta, Georgia, USA. Bjrn Franke and Michael OBoyle. Compiler Transformation of Pointers to Explicit Array Accesses in DSP Applications. In: Reinhard Wilhelm (Ed.), LNCS 2027, pp. 69-85, Proceedings of ETAPS Compiler Construction 2001, April 2-6, 2001, Genova, Italy. Bjrn Franke and Michael OBoyle. Towards Automatic Parallelisation for Multiprocessor DSPs. Proceedings of the 5th International Workshop on Software and Compilers for Embedded Systems (SCOPES), March 20-22, 2001, St. Goar, Germany. Bjrn Franke and Michael OBoyle. Automatic Array Access Recovery in Pointer based DSP Codes. Proceedings of 2nd Workshop on Media Processors and DSPs, 33rd International Symposium on Microarchitecture, December 2000, Monterey, California. Theses Bjrn Franke. Compilation Techniques for High-Performance Embedded Systems with Multiple Processors. Ph.D. Thesis, School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh, 2004. Bjrn Franke. Program Analyses and Transformations Exploiting Parallelism in DSPs. M.Sc. Thesis, Department of Computer Science, University of Edinburgh, 2000. Bjrn Franke. Analysen und Methoden optimierender Compiler zur Steigerung der Effizienz von Speicherzugriffen in eingebetteten Systemen . Diplomarbeit, Fachbereich Informatik, Universitt Dortmund, 1999. Teaching Current Teaching In the session 2018/19 I am teaching both the MSc Informatics Research Review and the MSc Individual Project Proposal . Past Teaching Over the years I have been teaching numerous courses including: Compiling Techniques Compiler Optimisation Distributed Systems Embedded Systems C Programming Concepts and Skills Course Design Together with my colleague Paul Patras I have been designing our new course Internet of Things, Security, and the Cloud. This course is intended to replace our existing Embedded Systems course, which I co-designed with Michael OBoyle several years ago, from 2017/18 onwards. Contact Dr. Bjrn Franke University of Edinburgh School of Informatics Institute for Computing Systems Architecture (ICSA) Email: bfranke@inf.ed.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0) 131 651 7175 Fax: +44 (0) 131 667 7209 Skype: bjoern_franke Postal Address: University of Edinburgh School of Informatics Informatics Forum, Room 1.04 10 Crichton Street Edinburgh EH8 9AB United Kingdom Proudly powered by WordPress 
