 Paul Jackson's Home Page I am a Senior Lecturer in the School of Informatics at the University of Edinburgh . email: Paul.Jackson (@) ed.ac.uk address: Room 2.12 Informatics Forum 10 Crichton Street Edinburgh EH8 9AB United Kingdom phone: [+44] (0)131 650 5131 fax: [+44] (0)131 651 1426 Research Interests My research interests concern the development of formal verification tools and their application in such areas as hardware verification, software verification, systems biology and formalised mathematics. Specific current interests include: Formal verification of cache coherence protocols supporting weak memory models. Formal verification of hybrid systems, in particular by use of deductive techniques such as realised in the KeYmaera theorem prover. Proof procedures for non-linear arithmetic and their application to hybrid systems verification. This and the previous item were topics of a recent EPSRC-funded project . Using SMT solvers and interactive theorem provers to prove software verification conditions. I have developed a tool, Victor , for augmenting the capabilities of the tools available for formally analysing programs written in the SPARK subset of Ada. In the past I have been interested in topics such as Space efficient and high performance encodings of linear temporal logic bounded model checking problems into SAT (propositional satisfiability) problems. Combining model checking and mechanical theorem proving techniques in order to verify hardware. Generalising abstraction methods. Importing formal developments of mathematics in the Mizar mathematical language into other theorem provers such as Isabelle. The design and use of interactive theorem provers. I undertook extensive work on Nuprl for my PhD and have experience with using PVS . Publications, Reports and Talks (click to view) Funding Current: Microsoft Research PhD Studentship: . Funding PhD of Kristjan Liiva. Jul 2014 -- Jun 2017 Co-I on EPSRC Grant C3: Scalable & Verified Shared Memory via Consistency-directed Cache Coherence (EP/M027317/1). V. Nagarajan (PI). Nov 2015 -- Nov 2018. Co-I on EPSRC Platform Grant The Integration and Interaction of Multiple Mathematical Reasoning Processes (EP/N014578/1). A. Ireland (PI). Nov 2015 -- Oct 2019. Recent: Co-I on EPSRC Platform Grant The Integration and Interaction of Multiple Mathematical Reasoning Processes (EP/J001058/1). A. Ireland (PI).Aug 2011 -- Oct 2015. PI for EPSRC Grant Automatic Proof Procedures for Polynomials and Special Functions (AutoPolyFun) Nov 2010 -- Feb 2015. Tools Victor , a verification condition translator for SPARK/Ada programs. Postgraduate Students Current PhD student: Kristjan Liiva . He is investigating using compositional techniques to improve the scalability of the validated integration of ODEs arising from biological applications. He is co-supervised by Grant Passmore at Aesthetic Integration and Christoph Wintersteiger at Microsoft Research, Cambridge. He started in September 2013. Previous PhD students include Andrew Sogokon . His interests were in improving the automation of formal proofs of correctness of hybrid systems. He completed his PhD January 2016, had a post-doc with Taylor Johnson at Vanderbilt University, and is currently a post-doc with Andr Platzer at Carnegie Mellon University. Grant Olney Passmore . His PhD focussed on proof procedures for non-linear arithmetic over the rationals and reals. He graduated in summer 2011. After a post-doc with me on the EPSRC-funded AutoPolyFun project, he co-founded in 2014 the financial technology startup Aesthetic Integration . Daniel Sheridan . He looked at novel encodings of bounded model checking problems into propositional satisfiability problems which can be checked by SAT solvers. He graduated November 2006, worked for the formal methods consultancy Adelard until 2015, and now works for Google. Tom Ridge . He verified a tree multicast protocol in the Isabelle and HOL-light theorem provers, improved theorem prover automation, and improved support for notions of proof context. He graduated November 2006 and is currently a Senior Lecturer in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Leicester . Professional Activities Program Committee for CICM 2017 , the 10th Conference on Intelligent Computer Mathematics , Calculemus track. Program Committee for CADE 2013 , the 24th International Conference on Automated Deduction . Co-program chair for CAV 2010 , International conference on Computer-Aided Verification . July 2010 Program Committee for VERIFY 2010 , 6th International Verification Workshop . Program Committee for AFM 2010 , 5th Workshop on Automated Formal Methods Program Committee for WING 2009 , Workshop on Invariant Generation Trustee of international CALCULEMUS Interest Group for integrating computer algebra systems and deduction systems. Dec 09 - Nov 12. Local Affiliations Within the School of Informatics, I am a member of several research institutes: the Laboratory for Foundations of Computer Science (LFCS) , the Institute for Computing Systems Architecture (ICSA) , and the Centre for Intelligent Systems and their Applications . Within CISA, I am most active with the Mathematical Reasoning Group Teaching Courses In the 2017-18 academic year I am teaching Formal Verification , a 4th year undergraduate and MSc level course. Introduction to Software Engineering , a 2nd year undergraduate course. In the past courses I have taught include: Automated Reasoning, a 4th year undergraduate and MSc level course that covered interactive theorem proving and model checking. Introduction to Computer Systems , a 2nd year undergraduate course. Verification and Test I , an MSc-level course at the ISLI. Taught foundations of verification methodology, using Verilog as the course language. Verification and Test II , an MSc-level course at the ISLI. Taught advanced verification methodology, using SystemVerilog as the course language. The CS/SE Individual Practical , a 3rd year undergraduate course. This course involved students developing a searchable peer-to-peer database in Java. IP Block Integration , an MSc module at the ISLI. This module explained how to assemble a system-level IC design from predefined and precharacterised hardware IP (Intellectual Property) blocks. It also covered current techniques for hardware design verification and design-for-test approaches. The main practical work centered around the e hardware verification language. Computer Science 1 , a 1st year undergraduate course in the School of Informatics. This course was taken by all students on Informatics related degrees. It covered topics such as programming in Java, software engineering, and algorithms and data-structures. The ISLI was the Institute for System-Level Integration , a venture run between 1999 and 2011 by 4 Scottish universities, including the University of Edinburgh, for the promotion of system-on-chip integrated circuit design. Projects Each year I supervise final year undergraduate and MSc projects. Recent subjects of projects at Edinburgh include: Developing a theory of multivariate polynomials in the Lean theorem prover Using Boogie to verify SPARK-Ada programs Verifying SPARK-Ada programs using a SAT modulo theories solver. Formalising zero-knowledge proofs in Isabelle. Evaluation of the ESC/Java static assertion checker for Java. Hardware verification using the Cadence SMV model checker. A parser for the Mizar Mathematical Library. Up till 2011 I supervised MSc projects at the Institute for System Level Integration. Projects included: Verification of a memory controller using Verisity's Specman tool and `e' language. Evaluation of Specman and the `e' language using a JTAG controller case study. Overcoming the Challenges of Timing Convergence for Next Generation SoC ASIC Devices Formal Verification of a RTL IP Block using Cadence FormalCheck. Analysis of Serial RapidIO performance and implementation of part of the physical layer specification. I have also proposed project on such topics as Building a MathWeb server for the Mizar Mathematical Library. A predicate subtyping extension for Isabelle/HOL. Bus protocol specification and verification using PSL which have not yet attracted takers. If you are looking for a project topic similar to any of the above, please get in touch. Administration My current administrative duties are: Informatics Taught MSc Year Organiser Personal Tutor Biography Sep 11-present: Senior Lecturer in Informatics at University of Edinburgh Jan-Mar 03: Visiting Fellow with the Computer Science Laboratory SRI International, Menlo Pk, California. Apr 99-Aug 11: Lecturer in Informatics at University of Edinburgh and in System Level Integration at Institute for System level Integration 98-Mar 99 Lecturer in Informatics at University of Edinburgh. 95-98 Research Fellow in Computer Science at University of Edinburgh. 88-95: MS, PhD degrees and post-doc in Computer Science at Cornell University, Ithaca NY, USA. Most of this time I was involved with the Nuprl project. 86-88: MS in Physics at Cornell University. Studied electron spin resonance in sapphire substrates using superconducting microstrip resonators. 84-86: Designed application-specific ICs for US General Electric in North Carolina, USA. 81-84: Undergraduate in Engineering at University of Cambridge, England. Electrical Sciences Tripos in 3rd year. Paul Jackson Last modified: Tue 7 Feb 2017 
