 philipp koehn Professor at the University of Edinburgh Chair of Machine Translation School of Informatics 10 Crichton Street, room 4.19 Edinburgh, EH8 9AB, United Kingdom Fax: +44 131 650-6626 Fon: +44 131 650-8287 pkoehn@inf.ed.ac.uk Resume Wikipedia My work is currently focused on statistical machine translation ( video ), but more broadly defined, my interest is to make use of the vast amount of information that is available in digital form. My book on statistical machine translation is now available from amazon.uk and amazon.com . More on the Statistical Machine Translation Group here. Come and join our weekly meeting ! Starting January 2014, I will be mainly at Johns Hopkins University, but remain affiliated with the University of Edinburgh. software and resources Statistical Machine Translation Website Text book , 2010 Moses , an open source statistical machine translation system Online Translation , based on Moses SMT Research Survey Wiki , a Wiki covering all research publications in statistical machine translation Online Evaluation Matrix , EuroMatrix project Computer Aided Translation Tool Caitra , EuroMatrixPlus project Pharaoh , 2003, 2004, a beam search decoder for phrase-based statistical machine translation models (replaced by Moses) Parallel Corpus European Parliament Proceedings , 2001, 2003, 2007. German-English Parallel Corpus "de-news", Daily News 1996-2000 , 2000. teaching Machine Translation , Spring 2009-2011. Advanced Natural Language Processing , Fall 2008-2012. Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , Spring 2007, 2008. Data Intensive Linguistics , Spring 2006. Computer Programming , Fall 2005-2007. advising Maria Nadejde , PhD student, 2012- Christian Buck, PhD student, 2011- Liane Guillou , PhD student, 2012-2016 Eva Hasler , PhD student, 2010-2015 Philip Williams , PhD student, 2009-2014 Michael Auli , PhD student, 2008-2012 Loc Dugast , PhD student, 2006-2012 Hieu Hoang , PhD student, 2005-2011 Abhishek Arun , PhD student, 2005-2010 Information about applying to study for a PhD or MSc in Informatics at Edinburgh. projects CASMACAT , EC FP7 STREP, 2011-2014 MateCat , EC FP7 STREP, 2011-2014 ACCEPT , EC FP7 STREP, 2012-2015 MosesCore , EC FP7 CSA, 2012-2015 EU BRIDGE , EC FP7 IP, 2012-2015 BOLT, DARPA subcontract, 2011- Let's MT , EC ICT-PSP, 2010-2012 EuroMatrixPlus , EC FP7 STREP, 2009-2012 EuroMatrix , EC FP6 STREP, 2006-2009 AGILE, DARPA subcontract, 2005-2011 JHU Summer Workshop, 2006 video CNN, 2013 Research in a Nutshell Inaugural lecture European Inventor Award, 2013 finalist French TV, 2010 publications 2014 The MATECAT Tool , Federico, Marcello and Bertoldi, Nicola and Cettolo, Mauro and Negri, Matteo and Turchi, Marco and Trombetti, Marco and Cattelan, Alessandro and Farina, Antonio and Lupinetti, Domenico and Martines, Andrea and Massidda, Alberto and Schwenk, Holger and Barrault, Loc and Blain, Frederic and Koehn, Philipp and Buck, Christian and Germann, Ulrich , Proceedings of COLING 2014, the 25th International Conference on Computational Linguistics: System Demonstrations, 2014, pdf , bib . Preference Grammars and Soft Syntactic Constraints for GHKM Syntax-based Statistical Machine Translation , Huck, Matthias and Hoang, Hieu and Koehn, Philipp , Proceedings of SSST-8, Eighth Workshop on Syntax, Semantics and Structure in Statistical Translation, 2014, pdf , bib . Edinburgh SLT and MT System Description for the IWSLT 2014 Evaluation , Alexandra Birch and Matthias Huck and Nadir Durrani and Nikolay Bogoychev and Philipp Koehn , Proceedings of the International Workshop on Spoken Language Translation (IWSLT), 2014, pdf . Combined Spoken Language Translation , Markus Freitag and Jrn Wbker and Stephan Peitz and Hermann Ney and Matthias Huck and Alexandra Birch and Nadir Durrani and Philipp Koehn and Mohammed Mediani and Isabel Slawik and Jan Niehues and Eunah Cho and Alex Waibel and Nicola Bertoldi and Mauro Cettolo and Marcello Federico , Proceedings of the International Workshop on Spoken Language Translation (IWSLT), 2014, pdf . Investigating the Usefulness of Generalized Word Representations in SMT , Durrani, Nadir and Koehn, Philipp and Schmid, Helmut and Fraser, Alexander , Proceedings of COLING 2014, the 25th International Conference on Computational Linguistics: Technical Papers, 2014, pdf , bib . Interactive translation prediction versus conventional post-editing in practice: a study with the CasMaCat workbench , Germn Sanchis-Trilles and Vicent Alabau and Christian Buck and Michael Carl and Francisco Casacuberta and Mercedes Garca-Martnez and Ulrich Germann and Jess Gonzlez-Rubio and Robin L. Hill and Philipp Koehn and Luis A. Leiva and Bartolom Mesa-Lao and Daniel Ortiz-Martnez and Herve Saint-Amand and Chara Tsoukala , Machine Translation, Volume 28, Number 3-4, pages 217-235, 2014. Dynamic Topic Adaptation for Phrase-based MT , Hasler, Eva and Blunsom, Phil and Koehn, Philipp and Haddow, Barry, Proceedings of the 14th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 2014, pdf , bib . CASMACAT: A Computer-assisted Translation Workbench , Alabau, Vicent and Buck, Christian and Carl, Michael and Casacuberta, Francisco and Garca-Martnez, Mercedes and Germann, Ulrich and Gonzlez-Rubio, Jess and Hill, Robin and Koehn, Philipp and Leiva, Luis and Mesa-Lao, Bartolom and Ortiz-Martnez, Daniel and Saint-Amand, Herve and Sanchis Trilles, Germn and Tsoukala, Chara , Proceedings of the Demonstrations at the 14th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pdf , bib Integrating an Unsupervised Transliteration Model into Statistical Machine Translation , Durrani, Nadir and Sajjad, Hassan and Hoang, Hieu and Koehn, Philipp , Proceedings of the 14th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, volume 2: Short Papers, 2014, pdf , bib Interactive translation prediction versus conventional post-editing in practice: a study with the CasMaCat workbench, Germn Sanchis-Trilles and Vicent Alabau and Christian Buck and Michael Carl and Francisco Casacuberta and Mercedes Garca-Martnez and Ulrich Germann and Jess Gonzlez-Rubio and Robin L. Hill and Philipp Koehn and Luis A. Leiva and Bartolom Mesa-Lao and Daniel Ortiz-Martnez and Herve Saint-Amand and Chara Tsoukala , Machine Translation, Volume 28, Number 3-4, pages 217-235, 2014. Improving machine translation via triangulation and transliteration , Nadir Durrani and Philipp Koehn , Proceedings of 17th Annual conference of the European Association for Machine Translation, 2014, pdf . Combining domain and topic adaptation for SMT , Eva Hasler and Barry Haddow and Philipp Koehn , Proceedings of the Eleventh Conference of the Association for Machine Translation in the Americas (AMTA), 2014, pdf . The Impact of Machine Translation Quality on Human Post-Editing , Koehn, Philipp and Germann, Ulrich , Proceedings of the EACL 2014 Workshop on Humans and Computer-assisted Translation, 2014, pdf , bib . Using Feature Structures to Improve Verb Translation in English-to-German Statistical MT , Williams, Philip and Koehn, Philipp , Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Hybrid Approaches to Machine Translation (HyTra), 2014, [df , bib . Refinements to Interactive Translation Prediction Based on Search Graphs , Koehn, Philipp and Tsoukala, Chara and Saint-Amand, Herve , Proceedings of the 52nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers), 2014, pdf , bib . Findings of the 2014 Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation , Bojar, Ondrej and Buck, Christian and Federmann, Christian and Haddow, Barry and Koehn, Philipp and Leveling, Johannes and Monz, Christof and Pecina, Pavel and Post, Matt and Saint-Amand, Herve and Soricut, Radu and Specia, Lucia and Tamchyna, Ale , Proceedings of the Ninth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, 2014, pdf , bib . Edinburgh's Phrase-based Machine Translation Systems for WMT-14 , Durrani, Nadir and Haddow, Barry and Koehn, Philipp and Heafield, Kenneth , Proceedings of the Ninth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, 2014, pdf , bib . EU-BRIDGE MT: Combined Machine Translation , Freitag, Markus and Peitz, Stephan and Wuebker, Joern and Ney, Hermann and Huck, Matthias and Sennrich, Rico and Durrani, Nadir and Nadejde, Maria and Williams, Philip and Koehn, Philipp and Herrmann, Teresa and Cho, Eunah and Waibel, Alex , Proceedings of the Ninth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, 2014, pdf , bib . Edinburgh's Syntax-Based Systems at WMT 2014 , Williams, Philip and Sennrich, Rico and Nadejde, Maria and Huck, Matthias and Hasler, Eva and Koehn, Philipp , Proceedings of the Ninth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, 2014, pdf , bib . Dynamic Topic Adaptation for SMT using Distributional Profiles , Hasler, Eva and Haddow, Barry and Koehn, Philipp , Proceedings of the Ninth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, 2014, pdf , bib . Augmenting String-to-Tree and Tree-to-String Translation with Non-Syntactic Phrases , Huck, Matthias and Hoang, Hieu and Koehn, Philipp , Proceedings of the Ninth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, 2014, pdf , bib . 2013 Grouping Language Model Boundary Words to Speed K-Best Extraction from Hypergraphs , Kenneth Heafield; Philipp Koehn; Alon Lavie , Proceedings of the Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (NAACL), pdf , bib . Dirt Cheap Web-Scale Parallel Text from the Common Crawl , Jason R. Smith, Herve Saint-Amand, Magdalena Plamada, Philipp Koehn, Chris Callison-Burch, and Adam Lopez , Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), pdf , bib . Learning to Prune: Context-Sensitive Pruning for Syntactic MT , Wenduan Xu, Yue Zhang, Philip Williams, and Philipp Koehn , Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), pdf , bib . Can Markov Models Over Minimal Translation Units Help Phrase-Based SMT? , Nadir Durrani, Alexander Fraser, Helmut Schmid, Hieu Hoang, and Philipp Koehn , Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), pdf , bib . Scalable Modified Kneser-Ney Language Model Estimation , Kenneth Heafield, Ivan Pouzyrevsky, Jonathan H. Clark, and Philipp Koehn , Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), pdf , bib . Abstract Meaning Representation for Sembanking , Laura Banarescu, Claire Bonial, Shu Cai, Madalina Georgescu, Kira Griffitt, Ulf Hermjakob, Kevin Knight, Philipp Koehn, Martha Palmer, and Nathan Schneider , Proceedings of the 7th Linguistic Annotation Workshop and Interoperability with Discourse, pdf , bib . Findings of the 2013 Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation , Ondrej Bojar, Christian Buck, Chris Callison-Burch, Christian Federmann, Barry Haddow, Philipp Koehn, Christof Monz, Matt Post, Radu Soricut, and Lucia Specia , Proceedings of the Eighth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, pdf , bib . The Feasibility of HMEANT as a Human MT Evaluation Metric , Alexandra Birch, Barry Haddow, Ulrich Germann, Maria Nadejde, Christian Buck, and Philipp Koehn , Proceedings of the Eighth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, pdf , bib . Edinburgh's Machine Translation Systems for European Language Pairs , Nadir Durrani, Barry Haddow, Kenneth Heafield, and Philipp Koehn , Proceedings of the Eighth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, pdf , bib . Edinburgh's Syntax-Based Machine Translation Systems , Maria Nadejde, Philip Williams, and Philipp Koehn , Proceedings of the Eighth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, pdf , bib . Advanced Computer Aided Translation with a Web-Based Workbench , Vicent Alabau, Ragnar Bonk, Christian Buck, Michael Carl, Francisco Casacuberta, Mercedes Garcia-Martinez, Philipp Koehn, Luis Leiva , Bartolome Mesa-Lao, Herve Saint-Amand, Chara Tsoukala, German Sanchis, Daniel Ortiz and Jesus Gonzalez , The 2nd Workshop on Post-Editing Technologies and Practice, pdf . CASMACAT: An Open Source Workbench for Advanced Computer Aided Translation , Vicent Alabau, Ragnar Bonk, Christian Buck, Michael Carl, Francisco Casacuberta, Mercedes Garca-Martnez, Jess Gonzlez, Philipp Koehn, Luis Leiva, Bartolom Mesa-Lao, Daniel Ortiz, Herve Saint-Amand, Germn Sanchis, Chara Tsoukala , The Prague Bulletin of Mathematical Linguistics, Number 100, October 2013, pages 101-112, pdf . 2012 Interpolated Backoff for Factored Translation Models , Philipp Koehn and Barry Haddow , Meeting of the Association for Machine Translation of the Americas (AMTA), 2012, pdf . Language Model Rest Costs and Space-Efficient Storage , Kenneth Heafield, Philipp Koehn and Alon Lavie , Proceedings of Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), 2012, pdf . Simulating Human Judgment in Machine Translation Evaluation Campaigns , Philipp Koehn , International Workshop on Spoken Language Translation (IWSLT), 2012, pdf . Sparse Lexicalised Features and Topic Adaptation for SMT , Eva Hasler, Barry Haddow and Philipp Koehn , International Workshop on Spoken Language Translation (IWSLT), 2012, pdf . The UEDIN Systems for the IWSLT 2012 Evaluation , Eva Hasler, Peter Bell, Arnab Ghoshal, Barry Haddow, Philipp Koehn, Fergus McInnes, Steve Renals and Pawel Swietojanski , International Workshop on Spoken Language Translation (IWSLT), 2012, . Findings of the 2012 Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation , Chris Callison-Burch, Philipp Koehn, Christof Monz, Matt Post, Radu Soricut and Lucia Specia , Proceedings of the Seventh Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation (WMT), 2012, pdf , bib . Towards Effective Use of Training Data in Statistical Machine Translation , Philipp Koehn and Barry Haddow , Proceedings of the Seventh Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation (WMT), 2012, pdf , bib . GHKM Rule Extraction and Scope-3 Parsing in Moses , Philip Williams and Philipp Koehn , Proceedings of the Seventh Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation (WMT), 2012, pdf , bib . Analysing the Effect of Out-of-Domain Data on SMT Systems , Barry Haddow and Philipp Koehn , Proceedings of the Seventh Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation (WMT), 2012, pdf , bib . Extending Hiero Decoding in Moses with Cube Growing , Wenduan Xu and Philipp Koehn , The Prague Bulletin of Mathematical Linguistics, Volume 98, pages 133-142, October 2012, pdf . Hallucinated N-Best Lists for Discriminative Language Modeling , Kenji Sagae, Maider Lehr, Emily Prud'hommeaux, Puyang Xu, Nathan Glenn, Damianos Karakos, Sanjeev Khudanpur, Brian Roark, Murat Saralar, Izhak Shafran, Daniel Bikel, Chris Callison-Burch, Yuan Cao, Keith Hall, Eva Hasler, Philipp Koehn, Adam Lopez, Matt Post, Darcey Riley , IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2012, pdf . Continuous Space Discriminative Language Modeling , Puyang Xu, Sanjeev Khudanpur, Maider Lehr, Emily Prud'hommeaux, Nathan Glenn, Damianos Karakos, Brian Roark, Kenji Sagae, Murat Saralar, Izhak Shafran, Dan Bikel, Chris Callison-Burch, Yuan Cao, Keith Hall, Eva Hasler, Philipp Koehn, Adam Lopez, Matt Post, Darcey Riley , IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2012, pdf . Semi-Supervised Discriminative Language Modeling for Turkish ASR , Arda elebi, Haim Sak, Erin Dikici, Murat Saralar, Maider Lehr, Emily Tucker Prud'hommeaux, Puyang Xu, Nathan Glenn, Damianos Karakos, Sanjeev Khudanpur, Brian Roark, Kenji Sagae, Izhak Shafran, Dan Bikel, Chris Callison-Burch, Yuan Cao, Keith Hall, Eva Hasler, Philipp Koehn, Adam Lopez, Matt Post, Darcey Riley , IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing (ICASSP), 2012, pdf . Deriving conversation-based features from unlabeled speech for discriminative language modeling , Damianos Karakos, Brian Roark, Izhak Shafran, Kenji Sagae, Maider Lehr, Emily Prud'hommeaux, Puyang Xu, Nathan Glenn, Sanjeev Khudanpur, Murat Saraclar, Dan Bikel, Mark Dredze, Chris Callison-Burch, Yuan Cao, Keith Hall, Eva Hasler, Philip Koehn, Adam Lopez, Matt Post and Darcey Riley , InterSpeech, 2012, pdf . 2011 Soft Dependency Constraints for Reordering in Hierarchical Phrase-Based Translation , Yang Gao, Philipp Koehn and Alexandra Birch , Proceedings of the 2011 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pdf , bib . Left Language Model State for Syntactic Machine Translation , Kenneth Heafield, Hieu Hoang, Philipp Koehn, Tetsuo Kiso and Marcello Federico , International Workshop on Spoken Language Translation (IWSLT), 2011, pdf . Agreement Constraints for Statistical Machine Translation into German , Philip Williams and Philipp Koehn , Proceedings of the Sixth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation (WMT), 2011, pdf , bib . SampleRank Training for Phrase-Based Machine Translation , Barry Haddow, Abhishek Arun and Philipp Koehn , Proceedings of the Sixth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation (WMT), 2011, pdf , bib . Findings of the 2011 Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation , Chris Callison-Burch, Philipp Koehn, Christof Monz and Omar Zaidan , Proceedings of the Sixth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation (WMT), 2011, pdf , bib . Factored Translation Models , Philipp Koehn and Hieu Hoang , Chapter in Handbook of Natural Language Processing and Machine Translation, editors Olive, Christianson, and McCary, Springer, 2011. Margin Infused Relaxed Algorithm for Moses , Eva Hasler, Barry Haddow and Philipp Koehn , The Prague Bulletin of Mathematical Linguistics, Volume 96, pages 69-78, October 2011, pdf . What is a better translation? Reflections on six years of running evaluation campaigns , Philipp Koehn , Tralogy 2011, pdf . Machine Translation , Philipp Koehn , Chapter in Multilingual Natural Language Processing Applications: From Theory to Practice, editors Imed Zitouni and Daniel M. Bikel, IBM Press, 2012. 2010 Statistical Machine Translation , Philipp Koehn , textbook, Cambridge University Press, January 2010, web , amazon.uk , amazon.com . Enabling Monolingual Translators: Post-Editing vs. Options , Philipp Koehn , NAACL, 2010, pdf , bib . An Experimental Management System , Philipp Koehn , The Prague Bulletin of Mathematical Linguistics, number 94, pages 87-96, September 2010, pdf . Monte Carlo Techniques for Phrase-Based Translation , Abhishek Arun, Barry Haddow, Philipp Koehn, Adam Lopez, Chris Dyer and Miles Osborne , Machine Translation Journal, Volume 24, Number 2, pages 103-121, 2010. Fast Approximate String Matching with Suffix Arrays and A* Parsing , Philipp Koehn and Jean Senellart , Meeting of the Association for Machine Translation of the Americas (AMTA), 2010, pdf . Convergence of Translation Memory and Statistical Machine Translation , Philipp Koehn and Jean Senellart , AMTA Workshop on MT Research and the Translation Industry, 2010, pdf . Findings of the 2010 Joint Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation and Metrics for Machine Translation , Chris Callison-Burch, Philipp Koehn, Christof Monz, Kay Peterson, Mark Przybocki and Omar Zaidan , Fifth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation and MetricsMATR, 2010, pdf , bib . More Linguistic Annotation for Statistical Machine Translation , Philipp Koehn, Barry Haddow, Philip Williams and Hieu Hoang , Fifth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation and MetricsMATR, 2010, pdf , bib . Aiding Pronoun Translation with Co-Reference Resolution , Ronan Le Nagard and Philipp Koehn , Fifth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation and MetricsMATR, 2010, pdf , bib . A Unified Approach to Minimum Risk Training and Decoding , Abhishek Arun, Barry Haddow and Philipp Koehn , Fifth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation and MetricsMATR, 2010, pdf , bib . Improved Translation with Source Syntax Labels , Hieu Hoang and Philipp Koehn , Fifth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation and MetricsMATR, 2010, pdf , bib . Empirical Methods for Splitting Compound Words with Application to Machine Translation , Philipp Koehn , United States Patent 7711545, awarded 2010. 2009 A process study of computer-aided translation , Philipp Koehn , Machine Translation Journal, 2009, volume 23, number 4, pages 241-263, data , pdf . Review of Cyril Goutte, Nicola Cancedda, Marc Dymetman, and George Foster (eds): Learning machine translation , Philipp Koehn , Machine Translation Journal, 2009, volume 23, number 4, pages 269-271. A Uniform Framework for Phrase-Based, Hierarchical and Syntax-Based Machine Translation , Hieu Hoang, Philipp Koehn and Adam Lopez , International Workshop on Machine Translation (IWSLT), 2009, bib , pdf . 462 Machine Translation Systems for Europe , Philipp Koehn, Alexandra Birch and Ralf Steinberger , MT Summit XII, 2009, pdf . Interactive Assistance to Human Translators using Statistical Machine Translation Methods , Philipp Koehn and Barry Haddow , MT Summit XII, 2009, pdf . Selective addition of corpus-extracted phrasal lexical rules to a rule-based machine translation system , Loc Dugast, Jean Senellart and Philipp Koehn , MT Summit XII, 2009, pdf . Monte Carlo Inference and Maximization for Phrase-based Translation , Abhishek Arun, Chris Dyer, Barry Haddow, Phil Blunsom, Adam Lopez and Philipp Koehn , Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning, 2009, pdf , bib . A Web-Based Interactive Computer Aided Translation Tool , Philipp Koehn , ACL Software demonstration, 2009, pdf , bib . Word Lattices for Multi-Source Translation , Josh Schroeder, Trevor Cohn and Philipp Koehn , EACL 2009, pdf , bib . Improving Mid-Range Re-Ordering using Templates of Factors , Hieu Hoang and Philipp Koehn , EACL 2009, pdf , bib . Findings of the 2009 Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation , Chris Callison-Burch, Philipp Koehn, Christof Monz and Josh Schroeder , EACL Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation 2009, pdf . Statistical Post Editing and Dictionary Extraction: Systran/Edinburgh submissions for ACL-WMT2009 , Loc Dugast, Jean Senellart and Philipp Koehn , EACL Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation 2009, pdf . Edinburghs Submission to all Tracks of the WMT2009 Shared Task with Reordering and Speed Improvements to Moses , Philipp Koehn and Barry Haddow , EACL Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation 2009, pdf . A Systematic Analysis of Translation Model Search Spaces , Michael Auli, Adam Lopez, Hieu Hoang and Philipp Koehn , EACL Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation 2009, pdf . Statistical Machine Translation , Philipp Koehn and Kevin Knight , United States Patent 7624005, awarded 2009. Constructing a translation lexicon from comparable, non-parallel corpora , Daniel Marcu, Kevin Knight, Dragos Munteanu, Philipp Koehn: , United States Patent 7620538, awarded 2009. 2008 Large and Diverse Language Models for Statistical Machine Translation , Holger Schwenk and Philipp Koehn , IJCNLP 2008, pdf . Enriching Morphologically Poor Languages for Statistical Machine Translation , Eleftherios Avramidis and Philipp Koehn , ACL 2008, pdf . Edinburgh University System Description for the 2008 NIST Machine Translation Evaluation , Philipp Koehn, Josh Schroeder and Miles Osborne , NIST MT Evaluation Meeting, pdf . Design of the Moses Decoder for Statistical Machine Translation , Hieu Hoang and Philipp Koehn , ACL Workshop on Software engineering, testing, and quality assurance for NLP 2008, pdf . Further Meta-Evaluation of Machine Translation , Chris Callison-Burch, Cameron Fordyce, Philipp Koehn, Christof Monz and Josh Schroeder , ACL Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation 2008, pdf . Towards better Machine Translation Quality for the German-English Language Pairs , Philipp Koehn, Abhishek Arun and Hieu Hoang , ACL Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation 2008, pdf . Can we Relearn an RBMT System? , Loic Dugastr, Jean Senellart and Philipp Koehn , ACL Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation 2008, pdf . Predicting Success in Machine Translation , Alexandra Birch, Miles Osborne and Philipp Koehn , EMNLP 2008, pdf . Phrase-Based Joint Probability Model for Statistical Machine Translation , Daniel Marcu, Kevin Knight, William Wong and Philipp Koehn , United States Patent 7454326, awarded 2008. 2007 Factored Translation Models , Philipp Koehn and Hieu Hoang , EMNLP 2007, pdf . Chinese Syntactic Reordering for Statistical Machine Translation , Chao Wang, Michael Collins and Philipp Koehn , EMNLP 2007, pdf . Moses: Open Source Toolkit for Statistical Machine Translation , Philipp Koehn, Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch, Chris Callison-Burch, Marcello Federico, Nicola Bertoldi, Brooke Cowan, Wade Shen, Christine Moran, Richard Zens, Chris Dyer, Ondrej Bojar, Alexandra Constantin, Evan Herbst , ACL 2007, demonstration session, pdf . (Meta-) Evaluation of Machine Translation , Chris Callison-Burch, Cameron Fordyce, Philipp Koehn, Christof Monz and Josh Schroeder , ACL Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation 2007, pdf . Experiments in Domain Adaptation for Statistical Machine Translation , Philipp Koehn and Josh Schroeder , ACL Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation 2007, pdf . CCG Supertags in Factored Statistical Machine Translation , Alexandra Birch, Miles Osborne and Philipp Koehn , ACL Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation 2007, pdf . Statistical Post-Edition on SYSTRAN Rule-Based Translation System , Loc Dugast, Jean Senellart, Michel Simard and Philipp Koehn , ACL Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation 2007, pdf . Online Learning Methods For Discriminative Training of Phrase Based Statistical Machine Translation , Abhishek Arun and Philipp Koehn , MT Summit XI, 2007. The University of Edinburgh System Description for IWSLT 2007 , Josh Schroeder and Philipp Koehn , IWSLT 2007, pdf . 2006 Improved Statistical Machine Translation Using Paraphrases , Chris Callison-Burch, Philipp Koehn and Miles Osborne , NAACL 2006, pdf . Re-evaluating the Role of Bleu in Machine Translation Research , Chris Callison-Burch, Miles Osborne and Philipp Koehn , EACL 2006, pdf . Statistical Machine Translation: the basic, the novel, and the speculative , Philipp Koehn , Tutorial at EACL 2006, slides , video: part 1 , part 2 . Manual and Automatic Evaluation of Machine Translation between European Languages , Philipp Koehn and Christof Monz , NAACL 2006 Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, pdf . Constraining the Phrase-Based, Joint Probability Statistical Translation Model , Alexandra Birch, Chris Callison-Burch, Miles Osborne and Philipp Koehn , NAACL 2006 Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, pdf . Edinburgh System Description for the 2006 TC-STAR Spoken Language Translation Evaluation , Abhishek Arun, Amittai Axelrod, Philipp Koehn , TC-Star Evaluation Workshop, 2006. 2005 Clause Restructuring for Statistical Machine Translation Michael Collins, Philipp Koehn, and Ivona Kucerova , ACL 2005, pdf . Shared Task: Statistical Machine Translation between European Languages , Philipp Koehn and Christof Monz ACL 2005 Workshop on Parallel Text, pdf . Europarl: A Parallel Corpus for Statistical Machine Translation , Philipp Koehn , MT Summit 2005, pdf . Edinburgh System Description for the 2005 IWSLT Speech Translation Evaluation , Philipp Koehn, Amittai Axelrod, Alexandra Birch Mayne, Chris Callison-Burch, Miles Osborne and David Talbot , International Workshop on Spoken Language Translation 2005, pdf . Edinburgh System Description for the 2005 NIST MT Evaluation , Philipp Koehn, Amittai Axelrod, Alexandra Birch Mayne, Chris Callison-Burch, Miles Osborne, David Talbot, and Michael White , MT Eval Workshop 2005, pdf , slides . Introduction to Statistical Machine Translation , Chris Callison-Burch and Philipp Koehn , European Summer School for Language and Logic (ESSLL) 2005, day1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 . 2004 Statistical Significance Tests for Machine Translation Evaluation , Philipp Koehn , EMNLP 2004, ps , pdf . Pharaoh: a Beam Search Decoder for Phrase-Based Statistical Machine Translation Models , Philipp Koehn , AMTA 2004, pdf , ps , slides . Challenges in Statistical Machine Translation , Philipp Koehn , Talk given at PARC, Google, ISI, MITRE, BBN, Univ. of Montreal, 2004, slides . The Foundation for Statistical Machine Translation at MIT , Philipp Koehn , Talk given at DARPA/TIDES MT Evaluation Workshop, 2004, slides . What's New in Statistical Machine Translation , Kevin Knight and Philipp Koehn , Tutorial at HLT/NAACL 2004. Introduction to Statistical Machine Translation , Philipp Koehn and Kevin Knight , Tutorial at AMTA 2004. Automatic Evaluation , Philipp Koehn , Panel talk at the AMTA 2004 panel on Machine Translation Evaluation, slides . 2003 Noun Phrase Translation , Philipp Koehn , PhD thesis, University of Southern California, 2003, ps (official format, 182 pages) , ps (readable format, 118 pages) . Advances in Statistical Machine Translation: Phrases, Noun Phrases and Beyond , Philipp Koehn , Talk given at ISI, JHU, UMD, MITRE, MIT, IBM, Columbia, AT&T, 2003, slides . Feature-Rich Statistical Translation of Noun Phrases , Philipp Koehn and Kevin Knight , ACL 2003, ps , pdf , abstract . Statistical Phrase-Based Translation , Philipp Koehn, Franz Josef Och, and Daniel Marcu , HLT/NAACL 2003, ps , pdf , slides , abstract . Empirical Methods for Compound Splitting , Philipp Koehn and Kevin Knight , EACL 2003, ps , pdf , abstract . What's New in Statistical Machine Translation , Kevin Knight and Philipp Koehn , Tutorial at HLT/NAACL 2003, slides . Statistical Machine Translation , Kevin Knight and Philipp Koehn , Tutorial at MT Summit 2003. Desparately Seeking Cebuano , Douglas W. Oard, David Doermann, Bonnie Dorr, Daqing He, Philip Resnik, Amy Weinberg, William Byrne, Sanjeev Khudanpur, David Yarowsky, Anton Leuski, Philipp Koehn, and Kevin Knight , NAACL-HLT 2003. 2002 Learning a Translation Lexicon from Monolingual Corpora , Philipp Koehn and Kevin Knight , ACL 2002, Workshop on Unsupervised Lexical Acquisition, ps , pdf . Combining Multiclass Maximum Entropy Text Classifiers with Neural Network Voting , Philipp Koehn , PorTAL 2002, ps , pdf . Translation with Scarce Bilingual Resources , Yaser Al-Onaizan, Ulrich Germann, Ulf Hermjakob, Kevin Knight, Philipp Koehn, Daniel Marcu, and Kenji Yamada , Machine Translation 17: 1-17, 2002, ps , pdf . ChunkMT: Statistical Machine Translation with Richer Linguistic Knowledge , Philipp Koehn and Kevin Knight , Draft, Unpublished, ps , pdf . 2001 Knowledge Sources for Word-Level Translation Models , Philipp Koehn and Kevin Knight , EMNLP 2001, ps , pdf , abstract . 2000 Estimating Word Translation Probabilities from Unrelated Monolingual Corpora Using the EM Algorithm , Philipp Koehn and Kevin Knight , AAAI 2000, ps , pdf , abstract . Translating with Scarce Resources , Yaser Al-Onaizan, Ulrich Germann, Ulf Hermjakob, Kevin Knight, Philipp Koehn, Daniel Marcu, and Kenji Yamada , AAAI 2000, ps , pdf , abstract . Improving Intonational Phrasing with Syntactic Information , Philipp Koehn, Steven Abney, Julia Hirschberg, and Michael Collins , ICASSP 2000, ps , pdf , abstract . Earlier Statistische und modellbasierte Lernverfahren zur Erweiterung von Unifikationsgrammatiken , Philipp Koehn , 1996, Diplom thesis at the University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Germany. ps , pdf , code , German abstract , English abstract . Genetic Encoding Strategies for Neural Networks , Philipp Koehn , IPMU 1996, ps , pdf , abstract . Combining Genetic Algorithms and Neural Networks , Philipp Koehn , 1994, Master Thesis at the University of Tennessee at Knoxville, USA. ps , pdf , code , abstract . links My first homepage L.A. Diary C64 Nostalgia Do not spell my name like this: Phillip Koehn, Philip Koehn, Phillipp Koehn, Phillip Khn, Philip Khn, Phillipp Khn, Phillip Kohn, Philip Kohn, Phillipp Kohn, Philipp Kohn. My real name is Philipp Khn, but the preferred spelling is Philipp Koehn. 
