 Jump to: Navigation About me I develop computational models of natural language learning, understanding and generation in people and machines, and my research focuses on basic scientific problems related to these models. I am especially interested in modeling the rich diversity of linguistic phenomena across the worlds languages. I am a Reader in the Institute for Language, Cognition, and Computation in the School of Informatics at the University of Edinburgh . My research group is part of the larger Edinburgh natural language processing group and we collaborate with many people in Edinburgh and more widely. I am also the co-director of the Centre for Doctoral Training in Data Science , which offers a four-year MSc + PhD programme. News Im in the Edinburgh Science Festival ! My interactive talk about language translation technologies will be on April 10. In January 2019, Sorcha Gilroy successfully defended her PhD thesis on Probabilistic Graph Formalisms for Meaning Representations. During her time as a student, she received an oustanding paper award at NAACL 2018 and was a finalist in University of Edinburgh 3-minute thesis competition , along with many other accomplishments. Sorcha Gilroy and I gave a tutorial on Graph Formalisms for Meaning Representations at EMNLP 2018 . We taught a week-long course on the same topic at NASSLLI 2018 . Current Highlights Neural networks for cross-lingual negation scope detection Federico Fancellu, Adam Lopez, and Bonnie Webber. In arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.02156 . 2018. Pre-training on high-resource speech recognition improves low-resource speech-to-text translation Sameer Bansal, Herman Kamper, Karen Livescu, Adam Lopez, and Sharon Goldwater. In arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.01431 . 2018. What do character-level models learn about morphology? The case of dependency parsing Clara Vania, Andreas Grivas, and Adam Lopez. In Proceedings of EMNLP . 2018. Indicatements that character language models learn English morpho-syntactic units and regularities Yova Kementchedjhieva and Adam Lopez. In Proceedings of the Workshop on analyzing and interpreting neural networks for NLP . 2018. Low-resource speech-to-text translation Sameer Bansal, Herman Kamper, Karen Livescu, Adam Lopez, and Sharon Goldwater. In Proceedings of Interspeech . 2018. Does ability affect alignment in second language tutorial dialogue? Arabella Sinclair, Adam Lopez, Christopher G. Lucas and Dragan Gaevi. In Proceedings of SIGDIAL . 2018. A structured syntax-semantics interface for English-AMR alignment Ida Szubert, Adam Lopez, and Nathan Schneider. In Proceedings of NAACL . 2018. Weighted DAG automata for semantic graphs David Chiang, Frank Drewes, Daniel Gildea, Adam Lopez, and Giorgio Satta. In Computational Linguistics , 44(1) : pages 119186,. 2018. Parsing graphs with regular graph grammars Sorcha Gilroy, Adam Lopez, and Sebastian Maneth. In Proceedings of *SEM . 2017. (Re)introducing regular graph languages Sorcha Gilroy, Adam Lopez, Sebastian Maneth, and Pijus Simonaitis. In Meeting on the Mathematics of Language . 2017. Made with jekyll using Hydejack v 8.0.0 Adam Lopez University of Edinburgh Navigation: Papers Teaching Collaborators Prospective collaborators Blog CV Social: Email GitHub Twitter Templates (for web app): Loading Error Sorry, an error occurred while loading . Back Permalink 
