 Mahesh K. Marina Institute for Computing Systems Architecture (ICSA) School of Informatics The University of Edinburgh E-mail: mahesh<at>ed.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)131 650 5125 Fax: +44 (0)131 651 5651 Room 1.20, Informatics Forum ( Central area campus ) 10 Crichton Street Edinburgh, EH8 9AB Scotland, UK Short Bio Im a Reader in the School of Informatics at the University of Edinburgh and a Turing Fellow at the Alan Turing Institute . At Edinburgh, I currently also serve as the Director of Institute for Computing Systems Architecture (one of the six research institutes within Informatics). Before joining Edinburgh, I had a two-year postdoctoral stint at the UCLA Computer Science Department in the Mobile Systems Laboratory headed by Prof. Rajive Bagrodia . I received my PhD in Computer Science in 2004 from the State University of New York at Stony Brook , where my advisor was Prof. Samir Das . I have previously held visiting researcher positions at ETH Zurich and at Ofcom London . Im a Senior Member of the ACM and the IEEE . Research My research broadly falls under networks and distributed systems and in particular within wireless networks and mobile systems . Within Informatics@Edinburgh, I'm a member of the Networks Research Group as well as the Security and Privacy group . My recent and on-going research is on the following topics, focusing mostly on various facets of next-generation (5G) mobile networks: 5G system architecture & network slicing Spectrum sharing Universal Internet access (see also my previous work on Tegola , NextGen Challenge 2011 Prize Winner ) Cellular IoT Crowdsourced wireless network monitoring Mobile context detection and sensing Privacy in the mobile domain Publications (also see Google Scholar listing) Team: Research Associate Xenofon Foukas PhD Students Galini Tsoukaneri Mohamed Kassem Rajkarn Singh Prospective PhD Students Graduated PhD Students Giacomo Bernardi (now at Extreme Networks) Sofia Pediaditaki (now at Intel) Arsham Farshad (now at Lancaster University) Lito Kriara (now at Disney Research, Zurich) Valentin Radu (now a Research Associate in Informatics@Edinburgh) Saravana Manickam (now running an IoT startup) Xenofon Foukas (now a Research Associate in Informatics@Edinburgh) Mahrukh Fida (now a Postdoctoral Fellow at Simula Research Laboratory) Teaching I am involved in teaching the following courses: UG4/MSc Computer Networking (CN) UG3 Computer Communications and Networks (COMN) Professional Service (recent/selected) Organising Committee Member (2018 - present), MobiUK Co-Founder and Steering Committee Member (till 2013), ACM MobiCom WiNTECH Workshop Co-Founder and Organising Committee Member (till 2014), SCONE (SCOttish Networking Event) Program Co-Chair: ICC 2017 Next Generation Networking and Internet Symposium , All Things Cellular 2016 (with ACM MobiCom ) Program Committee Member: IEEE INFOCOM 2016-19 , IEEE SECON 2012-18 , ACM MobiSys 2016 (External PC) , ACM DEV 2015-16 
