 Michael Rovatsos Reader, School of Informatics, The University of Edinburgh Agents Group CISA Informatics Main Welcome I am a Reader (Associate Professor) at the School of Informatics and Director of the Bayes Centre . I have also recently been appointed Turing University Lead for the University of Edinburgh at the Alan Turing Institute . In my research, I develop AI algorithms and architectures to support collaboration between humans. Think sharing economy, electronic markets, logistics and supply chains, or complex financial services. Making AI safe and ensuring it behaves in responsible ways is an important part of this vision. I lead the Agents Group at Edinburgh, and have been very lucky to work with many amazing PhD students, postdocs, and visitors in the group over the years on topics related to this overall research area, e.g. fair task recommendation mechanisms , scalable multiagent planning algorithms , or automated norm synthesis (just to give a few examples). Previously, I was Director of the Centre for Intelligent Systems and their Applications , and have been involved in several large research initiatives supported by more than 10 million of external funding. I co-ordinated the ESSENCE network, which focuses on using human communication techniques to enable AI systems to negotiate and evolve meaning. I led work on social orchestration systems for coordinating collective human activity in the SmartSociety project. In the UnBias project, I am currently developing fair data-driven algorithms that help address people's concerns about algorithmic bias. I'm always interested in exceptional PhD students - please get in touch if have a strong background in AI (especially multiagent systems, ethical and human-friendly AI, automated planning, game theory, symbolic learning). You should read the PhD study at CISA page, and you can find some example PhD topics here . I am a champion for increasing the percentage of female PhD students in our School, so if you are female and reading this, please consider yourself specifically encouraged to apply! You might also be interested in my CV , my research , publications , teaching and other activities . Follow me on Twitter for news, announcements, and random musings. Thanks for stopping by. View Edit History Print Find It Home CV Publications Research Teaching Students Other Activities Talks and Presentations Personal edit SideBar mrovatso at inf ed ac uk, snail: Informatics Forum 2.12A, Edinburgh EH8 9AB, tel: +44 131 6513263, fax: +44 131 6506899 Page last modified on 5th December, 2017. Drop Shadow theme adapted by David Gilbert , powered by PmWiki 
