Christopher Batten Associate Professor Electrical and Computer Engineering Frank H T Rhodes Hall, Room 323 607/255-2672 cbatten@cornell.edu Back to Directory: Biography Christopher Batten is an Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and graduate field member of Computer Science at Cornell. He is a member of the Computer Systems Laboratory, which works on hardware and software techniques for improving the cost, performance, programmability, reliability, and energy efficiency of future computer systems. Professor Batten received his Ph.D. in electrical engineering and computer science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. From 2007 to 2009, he was a visiting scholar in the Parallel Computing Laboratory at the University of California at Berkeley. Professor Batten received his M.Phil. in engineering as a Churchill Scholar at the University of Cambridge in 2000, and received his B.S. in electrical engineering as a Jefferson Scholar from the University of Virginia in 1999.. Research Interests Professor Batten's primary research interest is in energy-efficient parallel computer architecture for both high-performance and embedded applications. He is also interested in parallel programming methodologies, hardware specialization, interconnection networks, VLSI chip-design methodologies, and the intersection between computer architecture and future emerging technologies. Computer Architecture Computer Systems Computer Engineering Research Group Members. Teaching Interests Computer Architecture, VLSI Circuits and Systems. Selected Publications Shunning Jiang, Berkin Ilbeyi, and Christopher Batten. "Mamba: Closing the Performance Gap in Productive Hardware Development Frameworks." 55th ACM/IEEE Design Automation Conf. (DAC-55), June 2018. Scott Davidson, Shaolin Xie, Christopher Torng, Khalid Al-Hawaj, Austin Rovinski, Tutu Ajayi, Luis Vega, Chun Zhao, Ritchie Zhao, Steve Dai, Aporva Amarnath, Bandhav Veluri, Paul Gao, Anuj Rao, Gai Liu, Rajesh K. Gupta, Zhiru Zhang, Ronald G. Dreslinski, Christopher Batten, and Michael B. Taylor. "The Celerity Open-Source 511-Core RISC-V Tiered Accelerator Fabric: Fast Architectures and Design Methodologies for Fast Chips." IEEE Micro, 38(2):3041, Mar/Apr. 2018. Ji Kim, Shunning Jiang, Christopher Torng, Moyang Wang, Shreesha Srinath, Berkin Ilbeyi, Khalid Al-Hawaj, and Christopher Batten. "Using Intra-Core Loop-Task Accelerators to Improve the Productivity and Performance of Task-Based Parallel Programs." 50th ACM/IEEE Int'l Symp. on Microarchitecture (MICRO-50), Oct. 2017. Berkin Ilbeyi, Carl Friedrich Bolz-Tereick, and Christopher Batten. "Cross-Layer Workload Characterization of Meta-Tracing JIT VMs." IEEE Int'l Symp. on Workload Characterization (IISWC), Oct. 2017. Christopher Torng, Moyang Wang, and Christopher Batten. "Asymmetry-Aware Work-Stealing Runtimes." 43rd ACM/IEEE Int'l Symp. on Computer Architecture (ISCA-43), June 2016.. Selected Awards and Honors Cornell Engineering Research Excellence Award (College of Engineering, Cornell University) 2015 AFOSR Young Investigator Program Award (Air Force Office of Scientific Research) 2015 Michael Tien '72 Excellence in Teaching Award (College of Engineering, Cornell University) 2013 & 2017 DARPA Young Faculty Award (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency) 2012 NSF Early CAREER Award (National Science Foundation) 2012. Education BS (Electrical Engineering), University of Virginia, 1999 M.Phil (Engineering), University of Cambridge, 2000 Ph D (Electrical Engineering and Computer Science), Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2010. Websites Christopher Batten. Research Group Members Graduate Students Khalid Al-Hawaj ka429@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Lin Cheng lc873@cornell.edu Computer Science Berkin Ilbeyi bi45@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Shunning Jiang sj634@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Yanghui Ou yo96@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Peitian Pan pp482@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Tuan Ta qtt2@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Christopher Torng clt67@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Moyang Wang mw828@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering . 
