Hsiao-Dong Chiang Professor Electrical and Computer Engineering Frank H T Rhodes Hall, Room 328 607/255-5270 hc63@cornell.edu Back to Directory: Biography Dr. Hsiao-Dong Chiang received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the University of California, Berkeley. He is currently a Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Cornell University. Dr. Chiang is the founder of Bigwood Systems, Inc. (BSI), Ithaca, NY and Global Optimal Technology, Inc., Ithaca, NY. He was awarded a Chang-Jiang Chair professorship from 2006-2009. He was recognized as an IEEE Fellow in 1997 and became a Full Professor at Cornellin 1998. He and his group at Cornell have published more than 350 refereed journal and conference papers. The H-factor of his publication is 29. Dr. Chiang has been awarded 12 U.S. patents and four overseas patents, with another nine U.S. patents pending. He is currently on the Editorial Board of IEEE Japan and of the Journal of Electric Power Systems and Components.. Research Interests Professor Chiang's research effort is focused on both theoretical developments and practical applications. Particular areas include nonlinear system theory, nonlinear computations and their practical applications to electric circuits, systems, signals and images. He and his co-workers have developed a comprehensive theory of stability regions for general nonlinear dynamical systems (including continuous, discrete, interconnected, hyperbolic and non-hyperbolic nonlinear systems) and their practical applications. He and his co-workers have developed BCU method and Group-based BCU method for fast direct stability assessments for electric power systems. He and his group also work on the development of computational methods for nonlinear analysis and control of large-scale systems. Systems and Networking Research Group Members. Teaching Interests Electric power system analysis and optimization. Electric Power System dynamic simulation and stability analysis. Nonlinear System stability analysis and control. Nonlinear Circuits and Systems. Nonlinear Optimization and applications. Distribution Networks: Analysis, Control and Optimization. Machine learning and data mining.. Selected Publications Wang, B. D., Hsiao-Dong Chiang . 2011. "ELITE: Ensemble of Optimal, Input-Pruned Neural Networks Using TRUST-TECH." IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks 22 (1) : 96-109 . Chiang, Hsiao-Dong . 2010. Direct Methods for Stability Analysis of Electric Power Systems: Theoretical Foundation, BCU Methodologies, and Applications. : 494 pp.. New York, United States: Wiley. Chiang, Hsiao-Dong, B. Wang, Q-Y Jiang . 2009. "Application of TRUST-TECH methmodology in optimal power flow of power systems." In Optimization in the Engery Industry , 297-318. Springer. Reddy, C. H., Hsiao-Dong Chiang, B. Rajaratnam . 2008. "TRUST-TECH-based Expectation Maximization for Learning Finite Mixture Models." IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 30 (7) : 1146-1157 . Chiang, Hsiao-Dong, J. Lee . 2006. "Trust-Tech Paradigm for Computing high-quality optimal solutions: methods and theory." In Modern Heuristic Optimization Techniques: Theory and Applications to Power Systems . John-Wiley.. Selected Awards and Honors IEEE Fellow (IEEE) 1997 PES Working Group Award (IEEE Power Engineering Society) 1996 Outstanding Education Award (Cornell University) 1990 Presidential Young Investigator Award (National Science Foundation) 1989 Engineering Initiation Award (National Science Foundation, U.S.A) 1988. Education BS (Electrical Engineering), National Taiwan University, 1979 MS (Electrical Engineering), National Taiwan University, 1981 Ph D (Electrical Engineering), University of California-Berkeley, 1986. Research Group Members Graduate Students Zhiyong Hao zh272@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Robert Owusu-Mireku ro82@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering . 
