Amit Lal Robert M. Scharf 1977 Professor Electrical and Computer Engineering Phillips Hall, Room 118 607/255-9374 amit.lal@cornell.edu Back to Directory: Biography Prof. Lal obtained his Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering from Caltech in 1990. He obtained his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from University of California, Berkeley. He conducted his doctoral research at the Berkeley Sensors and Actuators Center in the area of ultrasonic MEMS. After working at University of Wisconsin-Madison as an assistant professor, he is now a professor at Cornell University, in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering. He holds more than 30 patents and has published more than 190 research papers in the area of microsystem engineering. He has served as a Program Manager at DARPA in the Microsystems Technology Office, from 2005-2009. At DARPA he managed ten and started six new programs in the area of navigation, low-energy computation, bio-robotics, and atomic microsystems. He is the recipient of the NSF CAREER award, and the Whitaker Foundation Award. With his students he has won several best paper awards at the IEEE Ultrasonics and Frequency Control Symposium, and IEEE NEMS conferences. He is also a recipient of the Department of Defense Exceptional Service Award, and a Best Program Manager Award for his work at DARPA. In addition to School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Prof. Lal is a field member of Biomedical Engineering, Applied Engineering Physics, Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Departments. He is a member of Cornell CCMR, NBTC, and KAUST-CU Centers.. Research Interests Professor Lal's interests are in developing concepts and technologies leading to integrated microsystems using micro and nanoscale fabrication techniques. He directs the SonicMEMS Laboratory, which works on very diverse topics aimed at transforming the way world can be viewed. The current focus of his research is on: (1) Gigahertz Ultrasonic for chip-scale communications, sensing, and computation, (2) Near zero power sensors for long-lifetime IoT, (3) Ultrasonic inertial sensors based on surafce acoustic waves, (4) Long term stable sensors that utilize laser locked to optical transitions of alkali metals as Constant-of-Nature on chip, (5) Bulk PZT sensors and actuators, and (6) Chip-scale manipulation of electron and ion beams. Advanced Materials Processing Advanced Materials Fluid Dynamics and Rheology Sensors and Actuators Microfluidics and Microsystems Nanobio Applications Nanotechnology Bioengineering Biomedical Engineering Biomedical Imaging and Instrumentation Microfluidics Signal and Image Processing Neuroscience Biomechanics and Mechanobiology Solid State, Electronics, Optoelectronics and MEMs Research Group Members. Teaching Interests Solid state electromechanical devices, integrated circuits, advanced MEMS and NEMS Service Interests Transducers Technical Program Committee, IEEE Ultrasonics and Frequency Control Technical Program Committee, ECE recruiting committee, reviewer for several journals, IEEE Sensors Council. Selected Publications Ramkumar, A., Amit Lal, D. A. Paduch, P. N. Schlegel.2009."An Ultrasonically Actuated Silicon-Microprobe-Based Testicular Tubule Assay." IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering56(11):2666-2674. Bozkurt, A., R. F. Gilmour, Amit Lal.2009."Balloon-Assisted Flight of Radio-Controlled Insect Biobots." IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering56(9):2304-2307. Duggirala, R., R. G. Poicawich, M. Dubey, Amit Lal.2008."Radioisotope Thin-film Fueled Microfabricated Reciprocating Electromechanical Power Generator." Journal of Microelectromechanical Systems17(4):837-849. Gupta, S. K., V. Pinrod, S. Nagid, B. Davaji, Amit Lal.2016. "Vibration Powered RF-Transponder for Sensing Low Frequency Motion Events." Paper presented at 16th International Conference on Micro and Nanotechnology for Power Generation and Energy Conversion Applications, PowerMEMS, Paris, France,December 6. Nadig, S., V. Pinrod, S. Ardanuc, Amit Lal.2016. "In-run scale factor and drift calibration of MEMS gyroscopes with rejection of acceleration sensitivities." Paper presented at IEEE the 3rd International Symposium on Inertial Sensors and Systems Piscataway, NJ, USA,February 22.. Selected Awards and Honors Robert M. Scharf 1977 Professor(College of Engineering, Cornell University)2015 Best Paper Award - Jason Hoople(IEEE UFFC)2014 Best Paper Award - Po-Cheng Chen(IEEE MEMS)2014 HHMI Visiting Scientist(Janelia Farms)2012 Intel Fellowship - for Steven Tin(Intel)2010. Education B.S. (Electrical Engineering), California Institute of Technology, 1990 Ph.D. (Electrical Engineering), University of California-Berkeley, 1996. Websites Cornell SonicMEMS Lab. Research Group Members Graduate Students Mamdouh Abdelmejeed moa35@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Priya Balasubramanian psb79@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering June Ho Hwang jh882@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Jessica (Yutong) Liu yl2724@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Di Ni dn273@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Visarute Pinrod vp239@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Adarsh Ravi ar2256@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Alexander Ruyack arr68@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering . 
