Anthony P. Reeves Professor Electrical and Computer Engineering Frank H T Rhodes Hall, Room 392 607/255-2342 reeves@cornell.edu Back to Directory: Biography Reeves has been on the faculty of Cornell University since 1982; previously, from 1976 to 1982, he was an Assistant Professor in the School of Electrical Engineering at Purdue University. He has held visiting faculty positions at the University of Wisconsin, Madison; McGill University, Montreal, P.Q., Canada; and Pavia University, Italy. From 1987 to 1988 he was a member of the faculty of the Department of Computer Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Since 2000 he has also held a faculty position in the Department of Radiology at the Weill Medical College of Cornell University.. Research Interests My current research program is computer methods for analyzing digital images especially with regards to accurate image measurements and with a primary focus on biomedical applications. In collaboration with radiologists at the Weill Medical College of Cornell University, a main research objective is the automatic detection and diagnosis of lung cancer from Computer Tomography (CT) scans and the computer aided diagnosis of diseases within the chest. Other ongoing collaborative projects are related to multidimensional image analysis including: sphere tracking in microgravity, hip dysplasia in a canine model, and analysis of four dimensional (optical sections recorded over time) video microscope images. An important outgrowth of the work with the Medical College has been the development of unique web-based clinical-study data-management system that includes both clinical data and all medical images. A web-based system to support collaborative rese arch programs involving image analysis has also been developed. Biotechnology Computer Aided Diagnosis Biomedical Imaging and Instrumentation Biomedical Engineering Bioengineering Systems and Networking . Selected Publications Liang, M., W. Tang, D M. Xu, A C. Jirapatnakul, A P. Reeves, C I. Henschke, D Yankelevitz.2016."Low-Dose CT Screening for Lung Cancer: Computer-aided Detection of Missed Lung Cancers.." Radiology281(1):279-288. Liu, S., Y. Xie, A P Reeves.2016."Automated 3D closed surface segmentation: application to vertebral body segmentation in CT images.." International Journal of Computer Assisted Radiology and Surgery11(5):789-801. Reeves, Anthony P., S. Liu, Y. Xie.2016. "Image segmentation evaluation for very-large data sets." Paper presented at SPIE International Symposium on Medical Imaging,March. Reeves, A P., Y. Xie, A Jirapatnakul.2016."Automated pulmonary nodule CT image characterization in lung cancer screening.."International Journal of Computer Assisted Radiology and Surgery11(1):73-88. Xie, Y., D. F. Liang, D. F. Yankelevitz, C. I. Henschke, Anthony P Reeves.2015. "Automated Segmentation of Cardiac Visceral Fat in Low-dose Non-contrast Chest CT Images." Paper presented at SPIE International Symposium on Medical Imaging 2015. Education B.S. (Electrical Engineering),University of Kent at Canterbury,1970 Ph.D. (Electrical Engineering),University of Kent at Canterbury,1973. Websites Vision and Image Analysis Group (VIA). 
