Charles Eugene Seyler Professor (Phased Retiree) Electrical and Computer Engineering Frank H T Rhodes Hall, Room 322 607/255-4967 ces7@cornell.edu Back to Directory: Biography Upon completion of his Ph.D. in plasma physics, Seyler held a post-doctoral position for two years at the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences at New York University working in fusion-related plasma physics. In 1978 he began work at Los Alamos National Laboratory as a research scientist in the controlled-fusion theory group. In 1981 he accepted a position in the School of Electrical Engineering at Cornell. While at Cornell Professor Seyler's research focus has been in plasma theory and simulation with specializations in space plasma physics and High Energy Density Physics. He is currently engaged in plasma simulation applied to the Cornell pulsed power experimental program.. Research Interests The state of matter called high energy density (HED) plasma occurs when the energy density is of the order of 10^11 joules m^-1. Attainment of this state is required to achieve nuclear fusion in a number of schemes based on inertial confinement. Our very limited current understanding of the dynamics of HED plasmas is mostly derived from numerical simulations. However, the vast amount of physics, large dynamical range of density and pressures, and the widely separated spatial and temporal scales creates a very challenging computational problem. Further progress is dependent on advancement of numerical methods capable of meeting these challenges. While there has been a great deal of success in addressing the modeling and computation of many of the physical process underlying HED plasmas, the simulation of phenomena that are dependent on short space and time scales remain largely unexplored. My current research is simulating HED plasmas with applications to fusion and designing computational algorithmic solutions to address some computational challenges concerning issues associated with short space-time scales. The code PERSEUS developed by my group is an extended-magnetohydrodynamic code that is capable of resolving physical processes dependent on short space and time scales without the great computational expense incurred by other methods. The simulation effort in my group is closely associated with HED Plasma experiments performed on the COBRA accelerator. The experiments have provided strong support for the validity of our computational approach. Algorithms Complex Systems, Network Science and Computation Earth and Atmospheric Science Astrophysics, Fusion and Plasma Physics High Energy Density Plasma Physics and Electromagnetics Research Group Members. Teaching Interests Fall 2014: ECE 3030 Electromagnetic Fields and Waves: 40 students 4 credits Spring 2015 : ECE 5820 10 students 4 credits Service Interests Served as the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Programs in the College of Engineering 2011-2013. . Selected Publications Zhao, X., Charles Eugene Seyler.2015."Computational Extended Magneto-hydrodynamical Study of Shock Structure Generated by Flows Past an Obstacle." Physics of Plasmas. Schrafel, P., K. Bell, J. Greenly, C. Seyler, B Kusse.2015."Magnetized laboratory plasma jets: Experiment and simulation." Physical Review E91(1). Zhao, X., Y. Yang, C E Seyler.2014."A positivity-preserving semi-implicit discontinuous Galerkin scheme for solving extended magnetohydrodynamics equations." JOURNAL OF COMPUTATIONAL PHYSICS278:400-415. Gourdain, P -, C E. Seyler, L. Atoyan, J B. Greenly, D A. Hammer, B R. Kusse, S A. Pikuz, W M. Potter, P C. Schrafel, T A Shelkovenko.2014."The impact of Hall physics on magnetized high energy density plasma jets." PHYSICS OF PLASMAS21(5). Gourdain, P -, C E Seyler.2014."Modeling of strongly collimated jets produced by high energy density plasmas on COBRA." PLASMA PHYSICS AND CONTROLLED FUSION56(3).. Selected Awards and Honors James and Mary Tien, College of Engineering award for excellence in teaching(Cornell University)2005 Kenneth A. Goldman College of Engineering award for excellence in teaching(Cornell University)2002 College of Engineering award for excellence in teaching(Cornell University)1999 Ruth and Joseph Spira Excellence in Teaching Award(Cornell University)1997. Education B.A. (Physics, Genl (Excl Biophys)), University of South Florida,1970 M.A. (Physics, Genl (Excl Biophys)),University of South Florida,1972 Ph.D. (Physica),University of Iowa,1975 . Websites Cornell University Laboratory of Plasma Studies. Research Group Members Graduate Students Zechen Zhang zz335@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering . 
