Mahsa Shoaran Assistant Professor Electrical and Computer Engineering Phillips Hall, Room 428D shoaran@cornell.edu Back to Directory: Biography Mahsa Shoaran is an Assistant Professor in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Cornell University. Prior to joining Cornell, she was a postdoctoral fellow at the California Institute of Technology. She received her PhD from EPFL, Switzerland, in 2015 and her B.Sc. from Sharif University of Technology. Mahsa is a recipient of both early and advanced Swiss National Science Foundation Postdoctoral Fellowships, and the NSF Award for Young Professionals Contributing to Smart and Connected Health. She was named a Rising Star in EE/CS by MIT in 2015.. Research Interests Low-power circuit design for biomedical applications, brain-computer interfaces, biomedical signal processing, on-chip classification and machine learning, neuromodulation therapies for neurological disorders. Solid State, Electronics, Optoelectronics and MEMs Neuroscience Algorithms Statistics and Machine Learning Sensors and Actuators Signal and Image Processing Research Group Members. Teaching Interests Integrated Circuits, Neural Interfaces. Selected Publications Shoaran, M., B. A. Haghi, M. Farivar, A. Emami. 2017. "Efficient Feature Extraction and Classification Methods in Neural Interfaces." the Bridge, National Academy of Engineering (NAE), vol. 47, no. 4. Shoaran, M., M. Shahshahani, M. Farivar, et al.2016."A 16-Channel 1.1mm Implantable Seizure Control SoC with Sub-WChannel Consumption and Closed-Loop Stimulation in 0.18m CMOS."IEEE Symposium on VLSI Circuits (VLSI Circuits). Shoaran, M., A. Tajalli, M. Alioto, A. Schmid, Y. Leblebici.2015."Analysis and Characterization of Variability in Subthreshold Source-Coupled Logic Circuits."IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I: Regular Papers (TCAS-I)62(2):458-467. Shoaran, M., C. Pollo, K. Schindler, A. Schmid.2015."A Fully-Integrated IC with 0.85-W/Channel Consumption for Epileptic iEEG Detection."IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems II: Express Briefs (TCAS-II)62(2):114-118. Shoaran, M., M. H. Kamal, C. Pollo, P. Vandergheynst, A. Schmid.2014."Compact Low-Power Cortical Recording Architecture for Compressive Multichannel Data Acquisition."IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Circuits and Systems (TBCAS)8(6):857-870.. Selected Awards and Honors Recent work presented in the NAE's Frontiers of Engineering Symposium on Unraveling the Complexity of Brain2017 Best Poster Award(International Conference for Technology and Analysis of Seizures)2017 Award for Young Professionals Contributing to Smart and Connected Health(NSF)2016 Early and Advanced Postdoctoral Fellowships(Swiss National Science Foundation)2016 Rising Star in EE/CS(MIT)2015. Education B.Sc. (Electrical Engineering), Sharif University of Technology, 2008 M.Sc. (Microelectronics),Sharif University of Technology, 2010 Ph.D. (Electrical Engineering), EPFL, 2015. Websites Cornell Neuroengineering Laboratory. Research Group Members Graduate Students Shahaboddin Ghajari sg2367@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Sanaz Sadeghi ss3842@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Uisub Shin us52@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Bingzhao Zhu bz323@cornell.edu Applied and Engineering Physics . 
