Christoph Studer Assistant Professor Electrical and Computer Engineering Frank H T Rhodes Hall, Room 331 607/2558218 studer@cornell.edu Back to Directory: Biography Christoph Studer received his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Information Technology and Electrical Engineering from ETH Zurich in 2005 and 2009, respectively. In his M.S. work, Christoph focused on wireless communication theory and built on this training during his Ph.D. studies, while also focusing on the design of digital integrated circuits for wireless communications. By jointly developing novel algorithms and corresponding integrated circuits, his work has allowed for the creation of more efficient solutions than had otherwise been possible. In 2005, he was a Visiting Researcher with the Smart Antennas Research Group at Stanford University. From 2006 to 2009, Christoph was a Research Assistant in both the Integrated Systems Laboratory and the Communication Technology Laboratory (CTL) at ETH Zurich, and from 2009 to 2011, he was Postdoctoral Researcher at CTL, ETH Zurich. In 2011, he relocated to the Digital Signal Processing Group at Rice University in Houston, TX, where he worked on signal and image processing, as well as machine learning, first as a Postdoctoral Researcher and then as a Research Scientist. Christoph received ETH Medals for his M.S. and Ph.D. theses in 2005 and 2011, respectively. He has collected various accolades for academic achievement including several best paper and best demo awards. Additionally, Christoph shared the Swisscom/ICTnet Innovations Award in both 2010 and 2013, and he received a two-year Swiss National Science Foundation fellowship for Advanced Researchers in 2011. Christoph seeks to merge the fields of signal and image processing, wireless communications, and machine learning, with the design of digital integrated circuits and systems. Using a unique interdisciplinary approach, he develops new, computationally efficient algorithms, studies their theoretical properties, and develops corresponding digital integrated circuits and systems. He plans to bring his experience in these various fields together through his focus on the development and implementation of unconventional imaging systems using computational photography, a novel approach that enables the design of better cameras. In addition, Christoph will continue his research in signal processing, wireless communications, machine learning, and digital integrated circuit and system design. Of particular interest to him is the challenge of bridging the ever-growing gap between theory, algorithms, and digital integrated circuits, with modern semiconductor technologies, which are each growing in vastly different directions.. Research Interests Digital very large-scale integration (VLSI) circuits and systems; signal and image processing; wireless communication systems; convex optimization; analysis of massive data sets. Algorithms Data Mining Information Theory and Communications Signal and Image Processing Statistics and Machine Learning Computer Architecture Computer Systems Solid State, Electronics, Optoelectronics and MEMs Computer Engineering Research Group Members. Selected Publications Castaneda, O., T. Goldstein, C. Studer.2016."Data Detection in Large Multi-Antenna Wireless Systems via Approximate Semidefinite Relaxation."IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I: Regular Papers63(12):2334-2346. Studer, C., G Durisi.2016."Quantized Massive MU-MIMO-OFDM Uplink."IEEE Transactions on Communications64(6):2387-2399. Wu, M., B. Yin, G. Wang, C. Dick, J. R. Cavallaro, Christoph Studer.2014."Large-Scale MIMO Detection for 3GPP LTE: Algorithms and FPGA Implementation."IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing8(5):916-929. Studer, Christoph, R. G. Baraniuk.2014."Stable Restoration and Separation of Approximately Sparse Signals."Applied and Computational Harmonic Analysis3(4):12-32. Bellasi, D., L. Bettini, C. Benkeser, T. Burger, Q. Huang, Christoph Studer.2013."Monolithic Compressive-Sensing Wideband Analog-to-Information Converter."IEEE Journal on Emerging and Selected Topics in Circuits and Systems3(4):552-565.. Selected Awards and Honors Michael Tien '72 Excellence in Teaching Award, Cornell University, College of Engineering2016 Shared the Swisscom/ICTnet Innovations Award 2013 on "Design of a Wideband Analog-to-Information Converter for Cognitive Radio" (with D. Bellasi, L. Bettini, and C. Benkeser (Swisscom/ICTnet) 2013 Best Demo Award at the IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS) for the demonstration "Real-Time Audio Restoration using Sparse Signal Recovery"(IEEE Symposium on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS))2013 ETH Medal for the doctoral dissertation on "Iterative MIMO Decoding: Algorithms and VLSI Implementation Aspects" carried out at the Dept. of Information Technology and Electrical Enginerigng(ETH)2011 Fellowship for Advanced Researchers from the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNSF)(Swiss National Science Foundation (SNSF)) 2011. Education M.S. (Information Technology and Electrical Engineering),ETH Zurich,2005 Ph.D. (Information Technology and Electrical Engineering),ETH Zurich,2009. Websites VLSI Information Processing (VIP) Group. Research Group Members Graduate Students Oscar Castaneda Fernandez oc66@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Ramina Ghods rg548@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Emre Gonultas eg566@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Charles Jeon cj339@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering . 
