Edward Suh Professor Electrical and Computer Engineering Frank H T Rhodes Hall, Room 338 607/255-6856 edward.suh@cornell.edu Back to Directory: Biography Professor Gookwon "Edward" Suh received a Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) with his work on a single-chip secure processor. Following graduate school, he spent a year at Verayo Inc., where he led the development of unclonable RFIDs and secure embedded processors. He joined the faculty of the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Cornell in 2007.. Research Interests Professor Suh's research interests include computer systems in general with particular focus on computer architecture. He is interested in combining architectural techniques with low-level software to enhance various aspects of computing systems such as performance, security, and reliability. His recent research efforts focus on parallel and reconfigurable computer architecture for security and reliability, embedded cyber-physical systems, and on-chip network design and management. Security Computer Architecture Computer Systems Computer Engineering Research Group Members. Teaching Interests Professor Suh's teaching efforts focus on providing students with strong foundations for designing computer systems, especially hardware. He was in charge of a senior-level computer architecture course (ECE4750), and a digital system design and computer organization course (ECE2300) in the past. He is currently, teaching a course on embedded systems (ECE3140/CS342) and a graduate-level course on secure computer architecture.. Selected Publications Ruirui, Huang, Halberg Erik, Gookwon Edward Suh.2013. "Non-Race Concurrency Bug Detection Through Order-Sensitive Critical Sections." Proceedings of the 40th International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA),June. Wang, Y., W.-K. Yu, Gookwon Edward Suh, E. Kan.2012. "Flash Memory for Ubiquitous Hardware Security Functions: True Random Generation and Device Fingerprints." Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy,May. Deng, Daniel Y., Daniel Lo, Greg Malysa, Skyler Schneider, Gookwon Edward Suh.2010. "Flexible and Efficient Instruction-Grained Run-Time Monitoring Using On-Chip Reconfigurable Fabric." Proceedings of the 43rd Annual International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MIRCO),December. Suh, Gookwon Edward, C. W. O'Donnell, I. Sachdev, S. Devadas.2005. "Design and Implementation of a Single-Chip Secure Processor Using Physical Random Functions." Paper presented at 32nd Annual International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA),June. Suh, Gookwon Edward, J. Lee, D. Zhang, S. Devadas.2004. "Secure Program Execution via Dynamic Information Flow Tracking." Paper presented at 11th International Conference on Architectual Support for Programming Languages and Operation Systems,October (4th Quarter/Autumn).. Selected Awards and Honors ASPLOS Most Influential Paper Award2014 Army Young Investigator Research Program Award(Army Research Office)2011 NSF CAREER Award2008 Air Force Young Investigator Research Program Award2008 Best paper award in the IASTED International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Computing Systems2001. Education B.S. (Electrical Engineering),Seoul National University,1999 M.S. (Electrical Engineering and Computer Science),Massachusetts Institute of Technology,2001 Financial Technology Option (FTO), Massachusetts Institute of Technology,2003 Ph.D. (Electrical Engineering and Computer Science),Massachusetts Institute of Technology,2005 . Websites Sue Research Group. Research Group Members Graduate Students Weizhe Hua wh399@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Mohamed Ismail mii5@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Mulong Luo ml2558@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering Benjamin Wu bhw49@cornell.edu Electrical and Computer Engineering . 
