 Richard Furuta Professor, Department of Computer Science Director, Center for the Study of Digital Libraries Director Hypermedia Research Laboratory Department of Computer Science H. R. Bright Building Texas A&M University 3112 TAMU College Station, TX 77843-3112 Electronic mail: furuta@cs.tamu.edu Telephone: (979) 845-3839 FAX: (979) 847-8578 Office: 402C H.R. Bright Building A brief biographical sketch and a relatively current vita (PDF) A list of selected projects, activities, and offices. Current courses (Fall 2010) ENGR 270/470: EPICS, Engineering Projects in Community Service Previous courses Walden's Paths --supporting paths over the World-Wide Web The Cervantes Project --writings about and materials by the author of Don Quijote . The Texas A&M University Biological Informatics Working Group Trellis, a model of interaction with a formal hypermedia basis, and caT , a more recent project updating the Trellis work. Journal-related editorships and boards JDL : Journal of Digital Libraries (editor-in-chief) JoDI : Journal of Digital Information (editorial board) JERIC : ACM Journal of Educational Resources in Computing (editorial board) Digital Libraries Conferences Program Chair, DL95 , the second international conference on the theory and practice of digital libraries, June 11-13, 1995, in Austin, TX. General Chair, DL94 , the first international conference on the theory and practive of digital libraries, June 19-21, 1994, in College Station, TX. Program Chair, ACM DL 2000. Chair, steering committee, ACM/IEEE Joint Conference on Digital Libraries I was U.S. Editor of Electronic Publishing: Origination, Dissemination and Design (a journal covering electronic publishing, hypermedia, digital libraries, and related topics). Back issues are available online, courtesy of the University of Nottingham. Some older research projects by my students Augustine Su has investigated hand-gesture-based interfaces to computer interfaces. Two aspects of his work include presentation of American Sign Language finger spelling and a general model of the and and its characteristics. Augustine Su and Shueh-Cheng Hu investigated Web-based 3D topographic visualizations, implemented in VRML. Vijay Kumar investigated interactive timelines as interfaces to information systems. Bing Xiao (MCS, Fall 1996) prepared a virtual tour of the Texas A&M University campus using VRML and QuickTime VR. Past Chair, ACM SIGLINK , the ACM's special interest group on Hypertext and Hypermedia Return to the or the Flying Toast (it must be multimedia...) and... Richard Furuta, furuta@cs.tamu.edu September 30, 2002 
