 skip to main content SRLx Mechanix PerSketchTivity Kidgab CourseSketch Haptigo/HaptiMoto Sousa Publications | Theses | Books | Book Chapters | Journal Papers | Conference Papers | Academic Calendar | TAMU Maps Texas A&M University Main News Awards Blog People Courses Publications Theses Posters Funding Speakers Conferences Join Director: Dr. Tracy Anne Hammond TAMU Sketch Recognition Lab Click below to watch us on the news!: Our mission at the Sketch Recognition Lab: activity recognition algorithms that can identify and understand a person's behavior and actions infer and predict a person's intentions and future choices wearable technologies and sensors that enhance a person's senses communicate environmental and personal information to the wearer help people be more cognizant of their environment enable people to make better choices. SRL has received over $8 million in total funding, including over $4 million in NSF funding and over $1 million in DoD funding. Hammond CV Dr. Tracy Anne Hammond Director, Sketch Recognition Lab Professor, Computer Science & Engineering, TAMU 326-327 Teague, 414C and 229 HRBB Mailstop 3112, College Station, TX 77840 hammond @ tamu.edu, 979 353 0899 Education: PhD , EECS , CSAIL / AI Lab, MIT , 2007 FTO , Finance Technology , Sloan School of Management, MIT , 2004 MA , Anthropology , GSAS, Columbia University , 2001 MS , Computer Science FuSEAS, Columbia U. , 2000 BS , Applied Mathematics and Physics FuSEAS, Columbia U. , 1997 BA , Mathematics , Columbia College, Columbia U. , 1997 SRL Members, Alumni, and Collaborators: Alumni: Brief Bio of Hammond: Director of the Sketch Recognition Lab and Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at Texas A&M University, Dr. Hammond is an international leader in activity recognition (focusing on eye, body, and sketch motions), haptics, intelligent fabrics, SmartPhone development, and computer human interaction research. Dr. Hammond's publications on the subjects are widely cited and have well over two thousand citations, with Dr. Hammond having an h-index of 22, an h10-index of 58, and three papers with over 200 citations each. Her research has been funded by NSF, DARPA, Google, and many others, totaling over 9 million dollars in peer reviewed funding. She holds a PhD in Computer Science and FTO (Finance Technology Option) from MIT, and four degrees from Columbia University: an M.S in Anthropology, an M.S. in Computer Science, a B.A. in Mathematics, and a B.S. in Applied Mathematics. Prior to joining the TAMU CSE faculty Dr. Hammond taught for five years at Columbia University and was a telecom analyst for four years at Goldman Sachs. Dr Hammond is the 2011-2012 recipient of the Charles H. Barclay, Jr. '45 Faculty Fellow Award. The Barclay Award is given to professors and associate professors who have been nominated for their overall contributions to the Engineering Program through classroom instruction, scholarly activities, and professional service. Dr. Hammond has been featured on the Discovery Channel and other news sources. Dr. Hammond is dedicated to diversity. She focuses a significant amount of her efforts on improving diversity in computer science, and published an award winning paper at FIE on the topic. She regularly sends 5-10 students yearly to Tapia and Grace Hopper, and has presented herself three times at Grace Hopper and Tapia, including mentoring workshops to junior faculty and undergraduates. She has recently founded a non profit organization, Wired Youth, with her graduate student Stephanie Valentine, teaching cybercitizen and computer science skills to young girls. Want To Join The Lab? - Click Here! (or click Join at the top) Student Resources New Lab Members To Do List CITI Training SRL Blog Post Instructions Thesis Proposal Guidelines Links: Mathematics Genealogy Project 2012 All rights reserved Texas A&M University College Station, Texas 77843 Site Policies Web Accessibility Emergency Preparedness 
