 Home Research Publications Biography Contact Home Guni Sharon Assistant professor Texas A&M University Department of Computer Science & Engineering OFFICE HRBB 427D PHONE +1 (979) 845-5498 E-MAIL guni (at) tamu (dot) edu G. SCHOLAR profile Research Research Interests I am a researcher with a strong theoretical basis in artificial intelligence. Specifically, reinforcement learning, combinatorial search, multiagent route assignment, game theory, flow and convex optimization, and multiagent modeling and simulation. I gained vast knowledge and experience in utilizing my theoretical foundations towards traffic management and traffic optimization application. Nonetheless, I view myself as part of the AI community where my work is highly cited. I strive to further the impact of my applicable expertise for solving real-life problems while simultaneously continuing to make theoretical advances that justify the proposed solutions. The question of whether a computer can think is no more interesting than the question of whether a submarine can swim. Edsger W. Dijkstra Artificial Intelligence Autonomous Traffic Management Network Flow Optimization Game Theory Multiagent Systems Reinforcement Learning Heuristic Search Graph-Based Pathfinding Autonomous Intersection Management Autonomous driving capabilities are becoming increasingly common on vehicles. Such capabilities present opportunities for developing safer, cleaner and more efficient road networks. Looking towards a future where traffic is composed of vehicles with different levels of autonomousy, we are developing efficient reservation based intersection management protocols. By relying on the fine and accurate control of connected and autonomous vehicles along with communication capabilities, intersection managements protocols coordinate such vehicles simultaneously across intersections. Traffic Flow Optimization Road pricing as a tool for congestion management has a long history in the transportation world, being first suggested nearly a century ago. Recent advances in connected and automated vehicle technology offer unprecedented flexibility and scope for implementing these tolls. In principle, tolls can be charged on many or all network links, and changed frequently in response to real-time observations of traffic conditions. Toll values and traffic conditions can then be communicated to vehicles which instantly change routes in response, with minimal to no intervention needed on behalf of drivers, who might only indicate some measure of the trip urgency or other proxy for value of time before departing. Even before autonomous driving technology reaches full penetration, communication capabilities and automated route selection software (as can be found on modern cell phones) may be sufficient to implement such a scheme. Delta-tolling, a practical method for computing marginal-cost pricing in traffic networks. Multiagent Pathfinding In the multiagent pathfinding problem we are given a graph and a set of agents, each agent must be assigned a path leading from its initial location to its destination such that it will not collide with obstacles or other moving agents. MAPF can model many real-world problems such as video games, traffic control, robotics, aviation, automated warehouses and more. See (Yu and LaValle 2016) for a comprehensive survey. Publications Publications AI for Traffic Applications Multiagent Pathfinding Heuristic Search PhD Thesis 2019 Selecting Compliant Agents for Opt-in Micro-Tolling . Josiah P. Hanna, Guni Sharon, Steve D. Boyles and Peter Stone In the Proceedings of the 33rd AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-19) , 2019 pdf bib Marginal Cost Pricing with a Fixed Error Factor in Traffic Networks . Guni Sharon, Stephen D. Boyles, Shani Alkoby, and Peter Stone In the Proceedings of the 18th International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems (AAMAS 2019) , 2019 pdf bib 2018 Enhanced Delta-tolling: Traffic Optimization via Policy Gradient Reinforcement Learning . Hamid Mirzaei, Guni Sharon, Stephen D. Boyles, Tony Givargis, and Peter Stone In the Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSC-18) , 2018 pdf bib Traffic Optimization for a Mixture of Self-interested and Compliant Agents . Guni Sharon, Michael Albert, Tarun Rambha, Stephen Boyles and Peter Stone In the Proceedings of the 32nd AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-18) , 2018 pdf bib DyETC: Dynamic Electronic Toll Collection for Traffic Congestion Alleviation . Haipeng Chen, Bo An, Guni Sharon, Josiah P. Hanna and Peter Stone In the Proceedings of the 32nd AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-18) , 2018 pdf bib 2017 Network-wide Adaptive Tolling for Connected and Automated Vehicles . Guni Sharon, Michael W. Levin, Josiah P. Hanna, Tarun Rambha, Stephen D. Boyles and Peter Stone In Transportation Research Part C, September , 2017 pdf bib Real-time Adaptive Tolling Scheme for Optimized Social Welfare in Traffic Networks . Guni Sharon, Josiah P. Hanna, Tarun Rambha, Michael W. Levin, Michael Albert, Stephen D. Boyles and Peter Stone In the Proceedings of the 16th International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems (AAMAS 2017) , 2017 pdf bib An Assessment of Autonomous Vehicles: Traffic Impacts and Infrastructure Needs . Dr. Kara Kockelman, Dr. Stephen Boyles, Dr. Peter Stone, Dr. Dan Fagnant, Rahul Patel, Michael W. Levin, Dr. Guni Sharon, Michele Simoni, Dr. Michael Albert, Hagen Fritz, Rebecca Hutchinson, Prateek Bansal, Gleb Domnenko, Pavle Bujanovic, Bumsik Kim, Elham Pourrahmani, Sudesh Agrawal, Tianxin Li, Josiah Hanna, Aqshems Nichols and Dr. Jia Li The University of Texas at Austin Center for Transportation Research. , 2017 pdf bib Bringing Smart Transport to Texans: Ensuring the Benefits of a Connected and Autonomous Transport System in Texas . Dr. Kara Kockelman, Dr. Stephen Boyles, Paul Avery, Dr. Christian Claudel, Lisa Loftus-Otway, Dr. Daniel Fagnant, Prateek Bansal, Michael W. Levin, Dr. Yong Zhao, Dr. Jun Liu, Lewis Clements, Wendy Wagner, Dr. Duncan Stewart, Dr. Guni Sharon, Dr. Michael Albert, Dr. Peter Stone, Josiah Hanna, Rahul Patel, Hagen Fritz, Tejas Choudhary, Tianxin Li, Aqshems Nichols, Kapil Sharma and Michele Simoni The University of Texas at Austin Center for Transportation Research. , 2017 pdf bib 2017 Multirobot symbolic planning under temporal uncertainty . Shiqi Zhang, Yuqian Jiang, Guni Sharon and Peter Stone In the Proceedings of the 16th Conference on Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems (AAMAS 17) , 2017 pdf bib Search-Based Optimal Solvers for the Multi-Agent Pathfinding Problem: Summary and Challenges . Ariel Felner, Stern Roni, Eyal Shimony, Eli Boyarski, Meir Goldenerg, Guni Sharon, Nathan R. Sturtevant, Glenn Wagner, and Pavel Surynek In the Proceedings of the 10th Annual Symposium on Combinatorial Search (SOCS 17) , 2017 pdf bib 2016 Multi-Agent Path Finding with Payload Transfers and the Package-Exchange Robot-Routing Problem . Hang Ma, Craig Tovey, Guni Sharon, T. K. Satish Kumar and Sven Koenig In the Proceedings of the 30th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-16) , 2016 pdf bib 2015 Conflict-based search for optimal multi-agent pathfinding . Guni Sharon, Roni Stern, Ariel Felner, and Nathan R. Sturtevant In Artificial Intelligence 219 (2015): 40-66. , 2015 Preliminary version appeared in the Proceedings of the 26th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-12) pdf-AIJ15 bib-AIJ15 pdf-AAAI12 bib-AAAI12 ICBS Improved Conflict-based Search algorithm for Multi-Agent Pathfinding . Eli Boyarski, Ariel Felner, Guni Sharon and Roni Stern In the Proceedings of the 24th International Joint Conference (IJCAI 15) , 2015 pdf bib Multi-Agent Pathfinding as a Combinatorial Auction . Ofra Amir, Guni Sharon and Roni Stern In the Proceedings of the 29th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-15) , 2015 pdf bib Don't Split, try to Work It Out: Bypassing Conflicts in Multi-Agent Pathfinding . Eli Boyarski, Ariel Felner, Guni Sharon and Roni Stern In the Proceedings of the 25th International Conference on Automated Planning and Scheduling (ICAPS 15) , 2015 pdf bib 2014 Suboptimal variants of the conflict-based search algorithm for the multi-agent pathfinding problem . Max Barer, Guni Sharon, Roni Stern and Ariel Felner In the Proceedings of the 7th Annual Symposium on Combinatorial Search (SOCS 14) , 2014 pdf bib 2013 The Increasing Cost Tree Search for Optimal Multi-agent Pathfinding . Guni Sharon, Roni Stern, Meir Goldenberg and Ariel Felner In Artificial Intelligence 195 (2013): 470-495. , 2013 Preliminary version appeared in the Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-2011) pdf-AIJ13 bib-AIJ13 pdf-IJCAI11 bib-AIJ13 2012 Meta-Agent Conflict-Based Search for Optimal Multi-Agent Path Finding . Guni Sharon, Roni Stern, Ariel Felner, Nathan R Sturtevant In the Proceedings of the 4th Annual Symposium on Combinatorial Search (SOCS 12) , 2012 Awarded best paper in SOCS 2012 pdf bib 2011 Pruning Techniques for the Increasing Cost Tree Search for Optimal Multi-Agent Pathfinding . Guni Sharon, Roni Stern, Meir Goldenberg and Ariel Felner In the Proceedings of the 3ed Annual Symposium on Combinatorial Search (SOCS 11) , 2011 pdf bib 2017 MM: A Bidirectional Search Algorithm That Is Guaranteed to Meet in the Middle . Robert C. Holte, Ariel Felner, Guni Sharon, Nathan R. Sturtevant and Jingwei Chen In Artificial Intelligence , 252:232--266, 2017 Preliminary version appeared in the Proceedings of the 30th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-16) Awarded best paper award in AAAI 2016 pdf-AIJ17 bib-AIJ17 pdf-AAAI16 bib-AAAI16 2016 An Improved Priority Function for Bidirectional Heuristic Search . Guni Sharon, Robert C. Holte, Ariel Felner and Nathan R. Sturtevant In the Proceedings of the 9th Annual Symposium on Combinatorial Search (SOCS-16) , 2016 pdf bib 2014 Enhanced Partial Expansion A* . Meir Goldenberg, Ariel Felner, Roni Stern, Guni Sharon, Nathan R Sturtevant, Robert C Holte, Jonathan Schaeffer In Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research 50 (2014) 141-187 , 2014 pdf bib Exponential deepening A* for real-time agent-centered search . Guni Sharon, Ariel Felner and Nathan Sturtevant In the Proceedings of the 28th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-14) , 2014 pdf bib 2013 Online Detection of Dead States in Real-Time Agent- Centered Search . Guni Sharon, Ariel Felner, Nathan Sturtevant In the Proceedings of the 5th Annual Symposium on Combinatorial Search (SOCS 13) , 2013 pdf bib 2012 Partial-Expansion A* with Selective Node Generation . Ariel Felner, Meir Goldenberg, Guni Sharon, Roni Stern, Tal Beja, Nathan R Sturtevant, Jonathan Schaeffer, Robert Holte In the Proceedings of the 26th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-12) , 2012 pdf bib PhD Thesis: Novel Search Techniques for Path Finding in Complex Environment . Guni Sharon In PhD thesis, Information Systems Engineering, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beersheba, Israel. , 2016 pdf bib Biography < Guni Sharon is an assistant professor in the department of computer science and engineering (CSE) at Texas A&M University. He received his Ph.D. and M.Sc. from Ben-Gurion University of the Negev. Dr. Sharons current work focuses on developing and applying artificial intelligence techniques for optimizing transportation networks. Curriculum Vitae Full One page One page + publications High-level Time Line 2018 onward Assistant professor Texas A&M University, Computer Science and Engineering. Develop and provide academic courses at the graduate and undergraduate levels. Guide, lead and mentor students during classes and research projects. Create, innovate and implement career-enhancement programs and activities. Serve and support functional activities of departmental committees. 2015-2018 Postdoc University of Texas at Austin, Computer Science. Member in TxDOT 6838 Project titled Bringing smart transport to Texans: ensuring the benefits of a connected and autonomous transport system in Texas. Part of a research collaboration between UT-Austin and Toyota, InfoTechnology Center Co., Ltd. Coordinating and leading a bi-weekly project meeting on traffic management including 2 faculty members, 3 post-docs and 2 Ph.D. students. 2011 - 2015 Ph.D. Ben-Gurion University, Information Systems Engineering; Dean award for outstanding Ph.D student. Thesis title Novel Search Techniques for Path Finding in Complex Environment. Awarded the "Darom" Graduate Research Scholarship. 2010 - 2015 Teaching fellow Ben-Gurion University. Led discussions in a class of up to 30 students. Prepared course material including laboratory experiments, lectures, exams, homework, and practice problems. TA for the following courses: Introduction to Operation Systems, Operations Research, Introduction to A.I., Automata and computability Theory. 2010 - 2012 M.Sc. Ben-Gurion University, Information Systems Engineering; graduation with Honors. Thesis title Optimal Multiagent Pathfinding. Awarded the Harbor Foundation Graduate Research Scholarship. 2007 - 2011 B.Sc. Ben-Gurion University, Information Systems Engineering; graduation with Honors. Winner of the South African Zionist Federation Scholarship. 2003 - 2006 Military Service Israeli Defense Force; Head of the operations department of an artillery brigade. supervised two soldiers. Contact Contact Me Feel free to contact me via email, phone or regular mail. I will do my best to reply as soon as possible. Address Department of Computer Science and Engineering, H. R. Bright Building, 3112 TAMU, 710 Ross St, College Station, TX 77843 E-Mail guni (at) tamu (dot) edu Phone +(1) 979 845 5498 2017 Modern CV. All rights reserved | Design by W3layouts 
