 Home | Research | Teaching Dylan A. Shell , Ph.D. Associate Professor, Gentleman, Scholar, Roboticist, Hopeful romantic, Adventurer, Libertine, Incorrigible rake, Plotter and Schemer, Subversive scallywag, etcetera . My recent publications are here. Short Bio Dylan Shell is an associate professor of computer science and engineering at Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas. He received his BSc degree in computational & applied mathematics and computer science from the University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa, and his M.S. and Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Southern California. His research aims to synthesize and analyze complex, intelligent behavior in distributed systems that exploit their physical embedding to interact with the physical world. He has published papers on multi-robot task allocation, robotics for emergency scenarios, biologically inspired multiple robot systems, multi-robot routing, estimation of group-level swarm properties, statistical mechanics for robot swarms, minimalist manipulation, wireless communication models for robot systems, interpolation for adaptive robotic sampling, rigid-body simulation and contact models, human-robot interaction, and robotic theatre. Recent Professional Service I am a co-chair for workshops at RSS in Cambridge, MA, over July 2017. I am also a co-chair for workshops at IEEE/RSJ IROS in Vancouver, Canada over September 2017. If you think you'd like to propose a workshop and would like to discuss the possibility, or receive some insight into what we're looking for, please email me! I'll be happy to discuss ideas. I'm also publications chair for the upcoming IEEE International Symposium on Multi-robot and Multi-agent Systems (MRS). I rather enjoy this image. It seems to imply that even from the moment Karel apek coined the word robot, tedious maintenance was anticipated. As a rule I insist on wearing a flat cap whilst tinkering on robots. But, alas, my students appear to think this faddish and have opted to eschew this well-meaning example. Contact Details Email: dshell(a)cs.tamu.edu Office: HRBB 330c/333a Tel: (+1) 979 845 2369 (office) Fax: (+1) 979 845 1420 Texas A&M University Department of Computer Science & Engineering TAMU 3112 College Station, TX 77843-3112 Related Links CSCE 482/483 CSCE 121 My dblp page Copyright 2017 Dylan A. Shell, All rights reserved. XHTML | CSS - Thanks to: Pet Medicine | Web site Design by : WDD 
