 Menu Home Research Teaching Activities Misc Fang Song Assistant Professor Department of Computer Science and Engineering , Texas A&M University Office : HRBB 427B Phone : +1 979-458-1904 Email : fang.song "at" tamu.edu (best way to reach me) I joined the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at Texas A&M University in Fall 2018. I was an Assistant Professor in the Computer Science Department at the Portland State University since Fall 2016. During 2013 to 2016, I was a postdoctoral fellow at the Institute for Quantum Computing and the Department of Combinatorics and Optimization at the University of Waterloo . I completed my PhD in 2013 in Computer Science and Engineering at the Pennsylvania State University , under the supervision of Prof. Sean Hallgren . Prior to that, I received my bachelors degree from University of Science & Technology of China in 2008. My research interests lie in cryptography, especially in the presence of quantum attacks (a.k.a. post-quantum crypto), quantum algorithms, computational complexity and theoretical computer science broadly. News September 2018 : I have a post-doctorate fellow position available at TAMU to work on quantum computing and post-quantum cryptography. The focus will be either on quantum provable security or quantum algorithms for post-quantum candidate problems. Starting date is flexible, and an official ad will be out soon. Shoot me an email if you (or know someone who) are interested and have related research experience. I AM HIRING! I am looking for self-motivated students who are interested in pursuing a PhD degree with me. Please feel free to reach me! With an undergraduate and a Masters student, we prove optimimal quantum query lower bounds and give quantum algorithms for finding collisions in a family of non-uniform random functions. Read more here . CBC-MAC and a few others were broken by quantum attacks, But NMAC and HMAC remain quantum-secure, as we prove in our Crypto17 paper. Check it out here . Asiacrypt 2017 will be held in Hong Kong , and I am happy to serve on the program committee. Please submit your excellent papers! 2019 Fang Song. 
