Biography Dr. Milani joined Florida International University after receiving his Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Central Florida in 1985. In the last 25 years he has been a faculty at the School of Computing and Information Sciences and has servedthe University in different roles, including associate dean of the School of Computing and Information Sciences, director of the Information Technology Program, and director of External Programs. Dr. Milani is currently the founding director of the Officeof Student Access and Success. The mission of this new Office is to provide prospective and assistance to current students of the College of Engineering and Computing at FIU with value chain opportunities and services that will enhance their academicexperiences and increase their rate of success in the school and their future careers. The Office supports students through recruitment, retention and enrichment programs, such as mentorship, undergraduate research opportunities, peer-to-peer tutoring,internship, and pre-college outreach activities. Dr. Milanis work in engaging students in research and providing scholarships and fellowships to undergraduate and graduate students has been supported by US Department of Education and the National ScienceFoundation.: Home / Faculty and Staff Directory / Milani, Masoud. Dr. Milani joined Florida International University after receiving his Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Central Florida in 1985. In the last 25 years he has been a faculty at the School of Computing and Information Sciences and has servedthe University in different roles, including associate dean of the School of Computing and Information Sciences, director of the Information Technology Program, and director of External Programs. Dr. Milani is currently the founding director of the Officeof Student Access and Success. The mission of this new Office is to provide prospective and assistance to current students of the College of Engineering and Computing at FIU with value chain opportunities and services that will enhance their academicexperiences and increase their rate of success in the school and their future careers. The Office supports students through recruitment, retention and enrichment programs, such as mentorship, undergraduate research opportunities, peer-to-peer tutoring,internship, and pre-college outreach activities. Dr. Milanis work in engaging students in research and providing scholarships and fellowships to undergraduate and graduate students has been supported by US Department of Education and the National ScienceFoundation.. 1986 Ph.D., Computer Science, University of Central Florida 1980 M.S., Computer Science, Jackson State University 1978 B.S., Computer Science, School of Planning and Computer Applications, Tehran, Iran. 1991-Present Associate Professor , School of Computing and Information Sciences, Florida International University, Miami, FL 33199 1985-1991 Assistant Professor , School of Computing and Information Sciences, Florida International University, Miami, FL 33199 2010 2013 Director the Center for Diversity in Engineering and Computing and Office of Student Access and Success , College of Engineering and Computing, Florida International University, Miami, FL 33199 2005-2009 Associate Dean , School of Computing and Information Sciences, Florida International University, Miami, FL 33199 2003-2005 Associate Director , External Programs, School of Computing and Information Sciences, Florida International University, Miami, FL 33199 2002-2003 Director , Information technology Program, School of Computing and Information Sciences, Florida International University, Miami, FL 33199 2002-2003 Director , External Programs, School of Computing and Information Sciences, Florida International University, Miami, FL 33199. 2019 Florida International University | Web/Accessibility Policy | SCIS WebDev | Website Feedback. 
