 Fahad Saeed, Ph.D. Biosketch Research Publications Funding News Contact Navigation Biosketch Funding News Biosketch Associate Professor, School of Computing and Information Sciences (SCIS) , Florida International University (FIU) , Miami FL Director of Saeed Lab(Parallel Computing and Data Science Group) at SCIS FIU Faculty web-pageat SCIS FIU: Link Click for CV (pdf file) I am keen to build collaborative partnerships with colleagues from academia as well as industry. Please get in touch with me if you're interested in a research or development project in an area of my research interests. We are always looking for exceptional PhD students. Contact Prof. Saeed via email ( fsaeed [at] fiu (dot) edu ) for a possible position in the lab. Interested in joining the group as fully-funded Research Assistant? Read this About Dr. Saeed Fahad Saeed is a tenured Associate Professor in the School of Computing and Information Sciences at Florida International University (FIU) , Miami FL and is the director of Saeed Lab at FIU. His research interests include parallel and distributed algorithms and architectures, computational proteomics & genomics and big data problems in computational biology and bioinformatics. Prior to joining FIU, Prof. Saeed was a tenure-track Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering and Department of Computer Science at Western Michigan University (WMU) , Kalamazoo Michigan since Jan 2014. He was tenured and promoted to the rank of Associate Professor at WMU in August 2018. Dr. Saeed was a Post-Doctoral Fellow and then a Research Fellow in the Systems Biology Center at National Institutes of Health (NIH) , Bethesda MD from Aug 2010 to June 2011 and from June 2011 to January 2014 respectively. He received his PhD in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering , University of Illinois at Chicago (UIC) in 2010. He has served as a visiting scientist in world-renowned prestigious institutions such as Department of Bio-Systems Science and Engineering (D-BSSE) , ETH Zrich , Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics (SIB) and Epithelial Systems Biology Laboratory (ESBL) at National Institutes of Health (NIH) Bethesda, Maryland. Dr. Saeed has served as the program co-chair of the Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (BICoB) Conference and IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and Biomedicine (IEEE BIBM). He is the founding chair of IEEE Workshop on HPC solutions to Big Data Computational Biology (IEEE HPC-BCB). He also serves on the editorial board of Springer Journal of Network Modeling Analysis in Health Informatics and Bioinformatics since 2014. He has served on numerous IEEE/ACM program committees and is peer-reviewer for more than a dozen journals. Dr. Saeed is a Senior Member of ACM and also a Senior Member of IEEE. His honors include ThinkSwiss Fellowship (2007,2008), NIH Postdoctoral Fellowship Award (2010), Fellows Award for Research Excellence (FARE) at NIH (2012), NSF CRII Award (2015), WMU Outstanding New Researcher Award (2016), WMU Distinguished Research and Creative Scholarship Award (2018), and NSF CAREER Award (2017). Subpages (3): Contact Publications Research Comments Anonymous undefined Your +mention will add people to this discussion and send an email. Making sure people you mentioned have access The assigned person will be notified and responsible for marking as done. Cancel You do not have permission to add comments. Report Abuse | Powered By Google Sites 
