 Toggle navigation Menu Endadul Hoque About Me Research Publications Teaching Other Service Team Download CV Contact Endadul Hoque Assistant Professor Computing and Information Sciences Florida International University ehoque AT fiu.edu About Me I am an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing and Information Sciences at Florida International University (FIU) . I received my Ph.D. in Computer Science from from the Department of Computer Science at Purdue University under the supervision of Prof. Cristina Nita-Rotaru in 2015. During 2016, I was a Postdoctoral Research Associate at Northeastern University (Host: Prof. Cristina Nita-Rotaru ). Academic positions Education Awards and Grants Announcements Fall 2017 I am currently looking for motivated graduate and undergraduate students who are interested in tackling practical cybersecurity problems in the networking domain. If interested, please contact me through email. Latest News Feb 2018 Received Cisco Network Security Distinguished Paper Award for our TCPwn paper at NDSS 2018 ( one of the top security conferences ) Oct 2017 Our paper " TCPwn " has been accepted in NDSS 2018 ( one of the top security conferences ) Our paper titled " Automated Attack Discovery in TCP Congestion Control Using a Model-guided Approach " has been accepted at NDSS Symposium 2018 . Many congratulations to Samuel Jero and the rest of the team. We received excellent reviews; here is an excerpt: " This is a really cool paper -- One of those that make you wish you had thought of the idea! It takes a classical problem and presents a refreshing new take on it [...] " Oct 2017 Our SymCerts paper has been selected as a finalist for the CSAW17 Applied Research Competition Aug 2017 CIS 5373 course page is up! Mar 2017 I will join CIS@FIU as an Assistant Professor from Fall 2017 Mar 2017 Our paper " CHIRON " has been accepted in DSN 2017 Our paper titled " Analyzing Operational Behavior of Stateful Protocol Implementations for Detecting Semantic Bugs " has been accepted at IEEE/IFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN) 2017 . Many congratulations to Sze Yiu Chau and Omar Chowdhury Feb 2017 Our paper " SymCerts " has been accepted in IEEE S&P 2017 ( the top security conference , also known as Oakland ) Our paper titled " SymCerts: Practical Symbolic Execution For Exposing Noncompliance in X.509 Certificate Validation Implementations " has been accepted at IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (S&P) 2017 . [ Acceptance rate: 13% ] Many congratulations to Sze Yiu Chau and Omar Chowdhury Positions 2017 present Assistant professor Florida International University 2016 2017 Postdoctoral Research Associate Northeastern University Close window Education 2015 PhD in Computer Science Dept. of Computer Science Purdue University 2010 MS in Computer Science Dept. of MSCS Marquette University 2008 BSc in Computer Science and Engineering Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET) Close window Awards and Grants Awards Feb 2018 Received Cisco Network Security Distinguished Paper Award for our TCPwn paper at NDSS 2018 ( one of the top security conferences ) Mar 2015 Bilsland Dissertation Fellowship Award in 2015 from the Graduate School at Purdue University for outstanding academic record About this award: The Bilsland Dissertation Fellowship provides support to outstanding Ph.D. candidates in their final year of doctoral degree completion. Bilsland Fellows are expected to devote full-time effort to the completion of all doctoral degree requirements to receive the doctoral degree at the conclusion of the fellowship tenure. April 2014 Graduate Teaching Fellowship award in 2014 from Dept. of Computer Science at Purdue University Grants (Under construction!) Close window Research My research interests lie at the intersection of networked systems and security . Broadly, I'm interested in tackling practical cybersecurity problems in the networking domain , where the overarching goal is to create automated techniques to achieve higher assurance on networked systems. I primarily apply program analysis and formal verification techniques to design and develop automated analysis techniques for aiding the development of secure networked systems, including real-world implementations of network protocols and IoT systems. Semantic bug detection via compliance checking Vulnerable Execution Discovery in Internet Security Protocols Publications For full publication list, click Selected Publications Automated Attack Discovery in TCP Congestion Control Using a Model-guided Approach Sameul Jero, Endadul Hoque, David Choffnes, Alan Mislove, and Cristina Nita-Rotaru Conference Network and Distributed System Security Symposium ( NDSS ), San Diego, California, Feb 2018. Cisco Network Security Distinguished Paper Award Media Link One of the most important goals of TCP is to ensure fairness and prevent congestion collapse by implementing congestion control. Various attacks against TCP congestion control have been reported over the years, most of which have been discovered through manual analysis. In this paper, we propose an automated method that combines the generality of implementation-agnostic fuzzing with the precision of runtime analysis to find attacks against implementations of TCP congestion control. It uses a model-guided approach to generate abstract attack strategies, by leveraging a state machine model of TCP congestion control to find vulnerable state machine paths that an attacker could exploit to increase or decrease the throughput of a connection to his advantage. These abstract strategies are then mapped to concrete attack strategies, which consist of sequences of actions such as injection or modification of acknowledgements and a logical time for injection. We design and implement a virtualized platform, TCPwn, that consists of a a proxy-based attack injector and a TCP congestion control state tracker that uses only network traffic to create and inject these concrete attack strategies. We evaluated 5 TCP implementations from 4 Linux distributions and Windows 8.1. Overall, we found 11 classes of attacks, of which 8 are new. Analyzing Operational Behavior of Stateful Protocol Implementations for Detecting Semantic Bugs Endadul Hoque, Omar Chowdhury, Sze Yiu Chau, Cristina Nita-Rotaru, and Ninghui Li Conference IEEE/IFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks ( DSN ), Denver, CO. June 2017 Network protocol implementations must comply with their specifications that include properties describing the correct operational behavior of the protocol in response to different temporal orderings of network events. Due to inconsistent interpretations of the specification, developers can unknowingly introduce semantic bugs, which cause the implementations to violate the respective properties. Detecting such bugs in stateful protocols becomes significantly difficult as their operations depend on their internal state machines and the complex interactions between the protocol logic. In this paper, we present an automated tool to help developers analyze their protocol implementations and detect semantic bugs violating the temporal properties of the protocols. Given an implementation, our tool (1) extracts the implemented finite state machine (FSM) of the protocol from the source code by symbolically exploring the code and (2) determines whether the extracted FSM violates given temporal properties by using an off-the-shelf model checker. We demonstrated the efficacy of our tool by applying it on 6 protocol implementations. We detected 11 semantic bugs (2 with security implications) when we analyzed these implementations against properties obtained from their publicly available specifications. SymCerts: Practical Symbolic Execution For Exposing Noncompliance in X.509 Certificate Validation Implementations Sze Yiu Chau, Omar Chowdhury, Endadul Hoque, Huangyi Ge, Aniket Kate, Cristina Nita-Rotaru, and Ninghui Li Conference IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy ( S&P ), San Jose, CA. May 2017. Finalist - CSAW 2017 Applied Research Competition The X.509 Public-Key Infrastructure has long been used in the SSL/TLS protocol to achieve authentication. A recent trend of Internet-of-Things (IoT) systems employing small footprint SSL/TLS libraries for secure communication has further propelled its prominence. The security guarantees provided by X.509 hinge on the assumption that the underlying implementation rigorously scrutinizes X.509 certificate chains, and accepts only the valid ones. Noncompliant implementations of X.509 can potentially lead to attacks and/or interoperability issues. In the literature, black-box fuzzing has been used to find flaws in X.509 validation implementations; fuzzing, however, cannot guarantee coverage and thus severe flaws may remain undetected. To thoroughly analyze X.509 implementations in small footprint SSL/TLS libraries, this paper takes the complementary approach of using symbolic execution. We observe that symbolic execution, a technique proven to be effective in finding software implementation flaws, can also be leveraged to expose noncompliance in X.509 implementations. Directly applying an off-the-shelf symbolic execution engine on SSL/TLS libraries is, however, not practical due to the problem of path explosion. To this end, we propose the use of SymCerts, which are X.509 certificate chains carefully constructed with a mixture of symbolic and concrete values. Utilizing SymCerts and some domain-specific optimizations, we symbolically execute the certificate chain validation code of each library and extract path constraints describing its accepting and rejecting certificate universes. These path constraints help us identify missing checks in different libraries. For exposing subtle but intricate noncompliance with X.509 standard, we cross-validate the constraints extracted from different libraries to find further implementation flaws. Our analysis of 9 small footprint X.509 implementations has uncovered 48 instances of noncompliance. Findings and suggestions provided by us have already been incorporated by developers into newer versions of their libraries. Automated Adversarial Testing of Unmodified Wireless Routing Implementations Endadul Hoque, Hyojeong Lee, Rahul Potharaju, Charles Killian, and Cristina Nita-Rotaru Journal IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking ( ToN ), vol 24, issue 6, Dec 2016. Numerous routing protocols have been designed and subjected to model checking and simulations. However, model checking the design or testing the simulator-based prototype of a protocol does not guarantee that the implementation is free of bugs and vulnerabilities. Testing implementations beyond their basic functionality (also known as adversarial testing) can increase protocol robustness. We focus on automated adversarial testing of real-world implementations of wireless routing protocols. In our previous work we created Turret, a platform that uses a network emulator and virtualization to test unmodified binaries of general distributed systems. Based on Turret, we create Turret-W designed specifically for wireless routing protocols. Turret-W includes new functionalities such as differentiating routing messages from data messages to enable evaluation of attacks on the control plane and the data plane separately, support for several additional protocols (e.g., those that use homogeneous/heterogenous packet formats, those that run on geographic forwarding (not just IP), those that operate at the data link layer instead of the network layer), support for several additional attacks (e.g., replay attacks) and for establishment of adversarial side-channels that allow for collusion. Turret-W can test not only general routing attacks, but also wireless specific attacks such as wormhole. Using Turret-W on publicly available implementations of five representative routing protocols, we (re-)discovered 37 attacks and 3 bugs. All these bugs and 5 of the total attacks were not previously reported to the best of our knowledge. Building Robust Distributed Systems and Network Protocols Using Adversarial Testing and Behavioral Analysis Endadul Hoque and Cristina Nita-Rotaru Conference IEEE Cybersecurity Development Conference ( SecDev ), Boston, MA. Nov 2016 We describe our experience over the past five years with building more robust distributed systems and network protocols by using adversarial testing and behavioral analysis. We describe the benefits and disadvantages of both approaches and the design of the tools we have built (Turret, Turret-W, SNAKE, and Chiron). We discuss how we applied them to byzantine-resilient state machine replication, wireless routing protocols, transport protocols, TLS, and IoT implementation of application-level protocols. Publication List 2018 Automated Attack Discovery in TCP Congestion Control Using a Model-guided Approach Sameul Jero, Endadul Hoque, David Choffnes, Alan Mislove, and Cristina Nita-Rotaru Conference Network and Distributed System Security Symposium ( NDSS ), San Diego, California, Feb 2018. Cisco Network Security Distinguished Paper Award Media Link One of the most important goals of TCP is to ensure fairness and prevent congestion collapse by implementing congestion control. Various attacks against TCP congestion control have been reported over the years, most of which have been discovered through manual analysis. In this paper, we propose an automated method that combines the generality of implementation-agnostic fuzzing with the precision of runtime analysis to find attacks against implementations of TCP congestion control. It uses a model-guided approach to generate abstract attack strategies, by leveraging a state machine model of TCP congestion control to find vulnerable state machine paths that an attacker could exploit to increase or decrease the throughput of a connection to his advantage. These abstract strategies are then mapped to concrete attack strategies, which consist of sequences of actions such as injection or modification of acknowledgements and a logical time for injection. We design and implement a virtualized platform, TCPwn, that consists of a a proxy-based attack injector and a TCP congestion control state tracker that uses only network traffic to create and inject these concrete attack strategies. We evaluated 5 TCP implementations from 4 Linux distributions and Windows 8.1. Overall, we found 11 classes of attacks, of which 8 are new. 2017 Analyzing Operational Behavior of Stateful Protocol Implementations for Detecting Semantic Bugs Endadul Hoque, Omar Chowdhury, Sze Yiu Chau, Cristina Nita-Rotaru, and Ninghui Li Conference IEEE/IFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks ( DSN ), Denver, CO. June 2017 Network protocol implementations must comply with their specifications that include properties describing the correct operational behavior of the protocol in response to different temporal orderings of network events. Due to inconsistent interpretations of the specification, developers can unknowingly introduce semantic bugs, which cause the implementations to violate the respective properties. Detecting such bugs in stateful protocols becomes significantly difficult as their operations depend on their internal state machines and the complex interactions between the protocol logic. In this paper, we present an automated tool to help developers analyze their protocol implementations and detect semantic bugs violating the temporal properties of the protocols. Given an implementation, our tool (1) extracts the implemented finite state machine (FSM) of the protocol from the source code by symbolically exploring the code and (2) determines whether the extracted FSM violates given temporal properties by using an off-the-shelf model checker. We demonstrated the efficacy of our tool by applying it on 6 protocol implementations. We detected 11 semantic bugs (2 with security implications) when we analyzed these implementations against properties obtained from their publicly available specifications. SymCerts: Practical Symbolic Execution For Exposing Noncompliance in X.509 Certificate Validation Implementations Sze Yiu Chau, Omar Chowdhury, Endadul Hoque, Huangyi Ge, Aniket Kate, Cristina Nita-Rotaru, and Ninghui Li Conference IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy ( S&P ), San Jose, CA. May 2017. [ Acceptance rate: 13% ] Finalist - CSAW 2017 Applied Research Competition The X.509 Public-Key Infrastructure has long been used in the SSL/TLS protocol to achieve authentication. A recent trend of Internet-of-Things (IoT) systems employing small footprint SSL/TLS libraries for secure communication has further propelled its prominence. The security guarantees provided by X.509 hinge on the assumption that the underlying implementation rigorously scrutinizes X.509 certificate chains, and accepts only the valid ones. Noncompliant implementations of X.509 can potentially lead to attacks and/or interoperability issues. In the literature, black-box fuzzing has been used to find flaws in X.509 validation implementations; fuzzing, however, cannot guarantee coverage and thus severe flaws may remain undetected. To thoroughly analyze X.509 implementations in small footprint SSL/TLS libraries, this paper takes the complementary approach of using symbolic execution. We observe that symbolic execution, a technique proven to be effective in finding software implementation flaws, can also be leveraged to expose noncompliance in X.509 implementations. Directly applying an off-the-shelf symbolic execution engine on SSL/TLS libraries is, however, not practical due to the problem of path explosion. To this end, we propose the use of SymCerts, which are X.509 certificate chains carefully constructed with a mixture of symbolic and concrete values. Utilizing SymCerts and some domain-specific optimizations, we symbolically execute the certificate chain validation code of each library and extract path constraints describing its accepting and rejecting certificate universes. These path constraints help us identify missing checks in different libraries. For exposing subtle but intricate noncompliance with X.509 standard, we cross-validate the constraints extracted from different libraries to find further implementation flaws. Our analysis of 9 small footprint X.509 implementations has uncovered 48 instances of noncompliance. Findings and suggestions provided by us have already been incorporated by developers into newer versions of their libraries. 2016 Automated Adversarial Testing of Unmodified Wireless Routing Implementations Endadul Hoque, Hyojeong Lee, Rahul Potharaju, Charles Killian, and Cristina Nita-Rotaru Journal IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking ( ToN ), vol 24, issue 6, Dec 2016. Numerous routing protocols have been designed and subjected to model checking and simulations. However, model checking the design or testing the simulator-based prototype of a protocol does not guarantee that the implementation is free of bugs and vulnerabilities. Testing implementations beyond their basic functionality (also known as adversarial testing) can increase protocol robustness. We focus on automated adversarial testing of real-world implementations of wireless routing protocols. In our previous work we created Turret, a platform that uses a network emulator and virtualization to test unmodified binaries of general distributed systems. Based on Turret, we create Turret-W designed specifically for wireless routing protocols. Turret-W includes new functionalities such as differentiating routing messages from data messages to enable evaluation of attacks on the control plane and the data plane separately, support for several additional protocols (e.g., those that use homogeneous/heterogenous packet formats, those that run on geographic forwarding (not just IP), those that operate at the data link layer instead of the network layer), support for several additional attacks (e.g., replay attacks) and for establishment of adversarial side-channels that allow for collusion. Turret-W can test not only general routing attacks, but also wireless specific attacks such as wormhole. Using Turret-W on publicly available implementations of five representative routing protocols, we (re-)discovered 37 attacks and 3 bugs. All these bugs and 5 of the total attacks were not previously reported to the best of our knowledge. Building Robust Distributed Systems and Network Protocols Using Adversarial Testing and Behavioral Analysis Endadul Hoque and Cristina Nita-Rotaru Conference IEEE Cybersecurity Development Conference ( SecDev ), Boston, MA. Nov 2016 We describe our experience over the past five years with building more robust distributed systems and network protocols by using adversarial testing and behavioral analysis. We describe the benefits and disadvantages of both approaches and the design of the tools we have built (Turret, Turret-W, SNAKE, and Chiron). We discuss how we applied them to byzantine-resilient state machine replication, wireless routing protocols, transport protocols, TLS, and IoT implementation of application-level protocols. Practical Intrusion-Tolerant Networks Daniel Obenshain, Thomas Tantillo, Amy Babay, John Schultz, Andrew Newell, Endadul Hoque, Yair Amir, and Cristina Nita-Rotaru Conference International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems ( ICDCS ), Japan, Jun 2016. Detecting specification noncompliance in network protocol implementations E. Hoque, O. Chowdhury, S. Y. Chau, C. Nita-Rotaru, and N. Li Poster USENIX Annual Technical Conference ( ATC ), Denver CO, Jun 2016. A Testing Platform for Teaching Secure Distributed Systems Programming E. Hoque, H. Lee, C. Killian, and C. Nita-Rotaru Tech-Report Department of Computer Science, Purdue University, TR 16-002, 2016. 2015 Taming Epidemic Outbreaks in Mobile Adhoc Networks E. Hoque, R. Potharaju, C. Nita-Rotaru, S. Venkatesh, and S. Sarkar Journal Ad Hoc Networks , Elsevier, Vol. 24, part A, Jan 2015. 2014 Turret: A Platform for Automated Attack Finding in Unmodified Distributed System Implementations Hyojeong Lee, Jeff Seibert, Endadul Hoque, Charles Killian, and Cristina Nita-Rotaru Conference International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems ( ICDCS ), Madrid, Spain, July 2014. 2013 Adversarial testing of wireless routing implementations E. Hoque, H. Lee, R. Potharaju, C. Killian, and C. Nita-Rotaru Conference ACM conference on Security and privacy in wireless and mobile networks ( WiSec ), Budapest, Hungary, April 2013. 2012 Closing the Pandora's Box: Defenses for Thwarting Epidemic Outbreaks in Mobile Adhoc Networks R. Potharaju, E. Hoque, C. Nita-Rotaru, S. S. Venkatesh, and S. Sarkar Conference IEEE International Conference on Mobile Ad hoc and Sensor Systems ( MASS ), Las Vegas, NV, Oct. 2012. 2011 AnonPri: An Efficient Anonymous Private Authentication Protocol Endadul Hoque, Farzana Rahman, and Sheikh Iqbal Ahamed Conference IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communications ( PerCom ), Seattle, WA, March 2011. [ Acceptance rate: 11% ] A complete list with older publications can be found on my google scholar page Close window Teaching Spring 2019 CIS 5373: Systems Security Fall 2018 CIS 5373: Systems Security Spring 2018 COT 5428: Formal Foundations of Cybersecurity Fall 2017 CIS 5373: Systems Security Service Program Committee Member 2019: NDSS'19 , WebConference'19 (formerly known as WWW2019) 2018: NDSS'18 , ICDCS'18 , EDCC'18 , ICNP'18 Program Chair PerIoT'18 (co-chair with Farzana Rahman and Samy El-Tawab), PerIoT'17 (co-chair with Farzana Rahman) Contact Me The best way to contact me is through email! ehoque@fiu.edu (305) 348-3386 PG-6 Room 140F (Re-)Designed by Endadul Hoque (Base template: Agency ) Semantic Bug Detection via Compliance Checking Overview Network protocols are notorious for their complexity. Implementing them correctly is crucial to the success of secure communication. However, research efforts to defend these implementations by advocating best practices in secure programming or formally verifying the correctness of the protocol designs are not always effective, nor sufficient, as indicated by the frequent reports of bugs discovered in protocol implementations after their deployment. This is because developers often unwittingly introduce elusive functional bugs into the code, resulting in deviations from protocol-compliant behavior. Such noncompliance instances can lead to incorrect results, interoperability issues, or critical security implications (e.g., impersonation attacks, breaking security guarantees). Detecting functional bugs is hard because while violating the protocol-compliant behavior, these bugs do not always display externally observable artifacts (e.g., crash). Therefore, in our research, we aim to create automated techniques -- by leveraging program analysis (e.g., symbolic execution) and formal verification (e.g., model checking) -- to check protocol implementations for compliance with their respective specifications. Publications Conferences Endadul Hoque, Omar Chowdhury, Sze Yiu Chau, Cristina Nita-Rotaru, and Ninghui Li. "Analyzing Operational Behavior of Stateful Protocol Implementations for Detecting Semantic Bugs." IEEE/IFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN), Denver, CO. June 2017. Sze Yiu Chau, Omar Chowdhury, Endadul Hoque, Huangyi Ge, Aniket Kate, Cristina Nita-Rotaru, and Ninghui Li. "SymCerts: Practical Symbolic Execution For Exposing Noncompliance in X.509 Certificate Validation Implementations." IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (S&P), San Jose, CA. May 2017. Members Collaborators Omar Chowdhury, University of Iowa Close Project Vulnerable Execution Discovery in Internet Security Protocols For details, please contact me! Close Project 
