Biography Dr. Ananda Mohan Mondal is currently an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing and Information Sciences at Florida International University (FIU). His research interests include Big Data Analytics, Machine Learning with Special Interest in Deep Learning, and Bioinformatics. Prior to joining FIU, Dr. Mondal was an Assistant Professor (2012-2018) of Computer Science in the Department of Mathematics and Computer Science at Claflin University, South Carolina. At Claflin University, a liberal arts and primarily undergraduate teaching institute, Dr. Mondal was a strong proponent of bringing research to undergraduate classes he taught. He developed four courses to introduce his research in Big Data and Bioinformatics to undergraduate students at Claflin University. Students mentored by Dr. Mondal graduated with refereed publications in IEEE BIBE, IEEE BIBM, and BIOCOMP. As the culmination of his career at Claflin, Dr. Mondal received the prestigious NSF CAREER Award in 2017. He was tenured and promoted to Associate Professor at Claflin University in August 2018. In Bangladesh, Dr. Mondal served as a Lecturer and then as an Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemical Engineering at Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET). He received his Ph.D. in Computer Science and Engineering from the University of South Carolina in 2011. Dr. Mondal has served as the session chairs for the IEEE BIBM, IEEE BIBE, and BIOCOMP. He is a peer reviewer for Bioinformatics and IEEE BIBM. He is a member of ACM, IEEE, and ISCB. Dr. Mondal received the Research Excellence Award twice (2015 and 2017) from the School of Natural Sciences and Mathematics at Claflin University. He also received The Attorney William H. and Annette B. Johnson Endowed Annual Faculty Award for Innovative Scientific Research Award at Claflin University (2017). Dr. Mondal is a recipient of the prestigious NSF CAREER Award (2017).: Home / Faculty and Staff Directory / Mondal, Ananda. Dr. Ananda Mohan Mondal is currently an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing and Information Sciences at Florida International University (FIU). His research interests include Big Data Analytics, Machine Learning with Special Interest in Deep Learning, and Bioinformatics.. Prior to joining FIU, Dr. Mondal was an Assistant Professor (2012-2018) of Computer Science in the Department of Mathematics and Computer Science at Claflin University, South Carolina. At Claflin University, a liberal arts and primarily undergraduate teaching institute, Dr. Mondal was a strong proponent of bringing research to undergraduate classes he taught. He developed four courses to introduce his research in Big Data and Bioinformatics to undergraduate students at Claflin University. Students mentored by Dr. Mondal graduated with refereed publications in IEEE BIBE, IEEE BIBM, and BIOCOMP. As the culmination of his career at Claflin, Dr. Mondal received the prestigious NSF CAREER Award in 2017. He was tenured and promoted to Associate Professor at Claflin University in August 2018. In Bangladesh, Dr. Mondal served as a Lecturer and then as an Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemical Engineering at Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET). He received his Ph.D. in Computer Science and Engineering from the University of South Carolina in 2011.. Dr. Mondal has served as the session chairs for the IEEE BIBM, IEEE BIBE, and BIOCOMP. He is a peer reviewer for Bioinformatics and IEEE BIBM. He is a member of ACM, IEEE, and ISCB.. Dr. Mondal received the Research Excellence Award twice (2015 and 2017) from the School of Natural Sciences and Mathematics at Claflin University. He also received The Attorney William H. and Annette B. Johnson Endowed Annual Faculty Award for Innovative Scientific Research Award at Claflin University (2017). Dr. Mondal is a recipient of the prestigious NSF CAREER Award (2017).. Reviewer. Session Chair. 2018 Present Time: Assistant Professor, School of Computing and Information Sciences, Florida International University, Miami, FL 2012 2018: Assistant Professor, Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, Claflin University, Orangeburg, SC 2005 2012: Instructor, Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, Claflin University, Orangeburg, SC 2003 2005: Database Administrator, Information Technology, Claflin University, Orangeburg, SC 1995 1997: Assistant Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering, Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET), Dhaka, Bangladesh 1991 1995: Lecturer, Department of Chemical Engineering, Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET), Dhaka, Bangladesh. 2019 Florida International University | Web/Accessibility Policy | SCIS WebDev | Website Feedback. 
