Biography Monique Ross holds a doctoral degree in Engineering Education from Purdue University. She has a Bachelors degree in Computer Engineering from Elizabethtown College, a Masters degree in Computer Science and Software Engineering from Auburn University, eleven years of experience in the industry as a software engineer, and five years as a full-time faculty in the departments of computer science and engineering. Her interests focus on broadening participation in engineering through the exploration of: 1) race, gender, and identity in the engineering workplace; 2) discipline-based education research (with a focus on computer science and computer engineering courses) in order to inform pedagogical practices that garner interest and retain women and minorities in computer-related engineering fields. She is the PI on two National Science Foundation grants, one foundation grant, and co-PI on two large scale grants. Dr. Monique Ross is committed to the expansion of rigorous computer science education research at FIU and nationally.: Home / Faculty and Staff Directory / Ross, Monique. Broadening participation through discipline-based education research (with a focus on computer science and computer engineering courses) that informs pedagogy utilized in computing programs in order to garner more interest in computer-related engineering fields, as well as contribute to retention of women and minorities in computer-related engineering fields.. 2016 Ph.D., Engineering Education, Purdue University 2011 Masters, Software Engineering and Computer Science 2001 Bachelors, Computer Engineering. Academic . August 2016 Present, Assistant Professor of Computer Science and STEM Transformation Institute, FIU. Industry . Worked as a software engineering at Raytheon Systems Company on many large scale defense software products for 11 years. Assumed the roles of software engineer, systems engineer, and software safety engineer.. 2019 Florida International University | Web/Accessibility Policy | SCIS WebDev | Website Feedback. 
