 Home About Directors Welcome Letter Accreditation Points of Pride Tech Station Industry Advisory Board Faculty & Staff Positions SCIS Tour Contact & Maps People Faculty Advising Staff Alumni Academics Degree Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Distance and Online Education Advising Explore Students Tutoring Clubs Labs Project Showcase Course Schedules Research Community News Events Upcoming Lecture Search: Computer Science for Everyone, IDC1000 A new online course where students will learn about the 7 Big Ideas of Computing Syllabus View here Computing is creative and engenders innovation Abstraction reduces details and allows the solving of problems Data facilitates the creation of knowledge Algorithms express solutions to complex problems Programming results in the creation of software Digital devices and the internet have had profound effects on society Computing enables innovation in other fields such as medicine, engineering, science, humanities Students will also learn how to create computer programs usingPython, and will design and program their own mobile Android apps using MIT App Inventor. In Python, students will learn basic programming techniques, including branching,loops, and calculations. In MIT App Inventory, students will learn how to make simple simulations, apps, and games. Students will see the relevance of computing applications and simulations in various disciplines in the modern world. About IDC1000 IDC1000 is an introductory course that could be taken at any time, freshmen through senior. However, it is most beneficial to students who are freshmen or sophomores, since the class will introduce them to the world of computing, and may serve as an inspiration to explore further classes in the School of Computing and Information Sciences, SCIS. The first half of the course revolves around reading a book called Blown to Bits, an 8-chapter, thought-provoking book reflecting on the impact of computer technology in a vast variety of fields. It involves reading, watching videos, participating in discussion boards, taking quizzes, and doing a couple of small projects. The second half of the course introduces students to the world of programming. First, theylearn a little bit of Python, how to install it on their laptops, and how to program very basic computing concepts such as if-statements, loops, and variables. After 3 weeks of Python, students spend the remaining 4 weeks learning MIT App Inventor. This is a tool that involves applying computing concepts to create apps for the Android operating system. Students go through 5 tutorials where they create basic apps, and then are given the opportunity to create an app of their own design, incorporating one of their favorite chapters in the Blown to Bits book. That way, they integrate what they learned in the first half of the course, with what they learn in the second half of the course. More Resourses testimonial video IDC 1000 (Powerpoint) how the internet works (Infographic) internet of things (Infographic) innovation Infographic Resources Advising Financial Aid Jobs, Internships & Scholarships Map & Direction Outreach Tutoring Degree Programs Distance & Online Education Faculty & Staff Directory Labs SCIS Mail Technical Support School of Computing and Information Sciences 11200 SW 8th Street CASE 354 Miami, FL 33199 Tel: 305-348-2744 Fax: 305-348-3549 Campus Maps Calendar Phonebook Social Directory Student Affairs A-Z Index PantherMail MyFIU 2019 Florida International University | Web/Accessibility Policy | SCIS WebDev | Website Feedback 
