 Anthony Hornof Anthony Hornof - Research - Publications - Teaching - Vita (pdf) Anthony Hornof Department of Computer and Information Science University of Oregon 356 Deschutes Eugene, OR 97403-1202 (541)346-1372 Fax: (541)346-5373 hornof@cs.uoregon.edu Dr. Hornof welcomes exceptional students and postdocs to his lab. Dr. Anthony J. Hornof is a Professor in the Department of Computer and Information Science at the University of Oregon. He joined the faculty in 1999. Anthony earned his Ph.D. in 1999 and his Master's degree in 1996, both from the University of Michigan, and both in Computer Science and Engineering. He received a B.A. in Computer Science from Columbia University in 1988. Anthonys research is in human-computer interaction (HCI), and his contributions to this field are well-recognized. He is published in the leading human-computer interaction journals and conferences; has been awarded $2.9 million in research grants from the National Science Foundation and the Office of Naval Research; and serves on the editorial board of ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction . The National Science Foundation invited Anthony to serve as a Program Director in the NSF's Human-Centered Computing and Cyber-Human Systems funding programs, which he did from 2012-2014, during which time he contributed to funding decisions of roughly $65 million. Though Anthony is intrigued with nearly all aspects of HCI, he is particularly interested in detailed analyses of the human perceptual, cognitive, and motor processing that regulate how people interact with computers. He explores this interest through human experimentation and computational cognitive modeling, with an emphasis on using eye tracking data combined with modeling to explore the cognitive strategies that people use to accomplish tasks on a computer. Anthony is also very interested in accessibility and augmentative communication. To this end, he has worked with children with severe motor and communication impairments to develop participatory design techniques that permit such children to contribute to collaborative design processes; developed software called EyeDraw that permits children with severe motor impairments to draw pictures with their eyes; and explored the expressive capabilities of eye movements through an eye-controlled musical composition called EyeMusic v1.0 which he performed in New York City in 2007. Anthony lived in New York City from 1983-1993. He attended college; devised technology solutions for Deloitte and Touche; deejayed at nightclubs such as Save the Robots and M.K., honing skills that he still keeps up to date; and constructed mixed-media paintings featured in shows at Mars Bar, Max Fish, and Low Library. In 1993, he redirected the majority of his creative and intellectual energies towards a career in academic research. 
