 Jun Li's Home Page Jun Li CCSP Research Lab Teaching Publications To Prospective Students Postdoc or Visiting Positions Email: Phone: (541) 346-4424 Dr. Jun Li is a Professor in the Department of Computer and Information Science , University of Oregon , and directs the Network & Security Research Laboratory . He is also the founding director of the interdisciplinary Center for Cyber Security and Privacy at the University of Oregon. Dr. Jun Li received his Ph.D. degree in computer science from the University of California, Los Angeles , CA, in 2002, with honors (Outstanding Doctor of Philosophy). Prior to that, he received his M.E. degree from the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 1995 (with Presidential Scholarship), and his B.S. degree from the Peking University in 1992. Currently he is the principal investigator on a 2015-2018 1.38-million grant researching the defense against the distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks on the Internet. Dubbed DrawBridge, this research project leverages software-defined networking (SDN) to enable Internet service providers to more effectively filter DDoS traffic. In collaboration with University of Arkansas and UNCC, he is also the principal investigator on a 2016-2020 1.2-million NSF grant to study the fraud and attack detection on online social networks. Dr. Jun Li is also working with an interdisciplinary team to study Internet privacy, thanks to the Incubating Interdisciplinary Initiatives (I3) award from the Office of Research and Innovation of the University of Oregon. In the past decade he has also been continuously funded by the National Science Foundation as a principal investigator on various other projects on cyber security and networking, including the esteemed NSF CAREER award in 2007. Overall, Dr. Jun Li is interested in networking, distributed systems, and their security. He studies not only the functioning and performance of fundamental networking functions (e.g., routing and naming), various networking paradigms (e.g., software-defined networking, Internet of Things, data center networking, peer-to-peer networking), and popular applications (e.g., online social networking), but also their problems in, or usage for, security and privacy. He studies both direct countermeasures against network security attacks (including Internet worms, phishing, botnets, and Sybil attacks) and fundamental security issues and solutions at the network architecture and protocol level (such as DDoS defense, Internet routing security, and DNS security). Some of these projects can be found here . Dr. Jun Li is a senior member of ACM and a senior member of IEEE. He has served on 70 international technical program committees, including chairing IWQoS 2015 , GI 2014 , NPSec 2014 , Globecom CISS 2014 , and NPSec 2013 . He currently serves on the editorial boards of IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing and Elsevier Computer Networks . 
