 Thanh's Homepage Thanh H. Nguyen Department of Computer and Information Science University of Oregon About Me Research Publications Teaching Gallery Contact Me Download CV @ Thanh H. Nguyen 2018 Thanh H. Nguyen I am an Assistant Professor in Department of Computer and Information Science at the University of Oregon. My research interests include Artificial Intelligence , Multi-Agent Systems , Game Theory , Machine Learning , Operations Research , and Optimization . My work is motivated by real-world problems, including domains in Public Safety and Security (e.g., urban crime prevention and counterterrorism), Sustainability (e.g., wildlife and fish protection), and Cybersecurity (e.g., stealthy botnet disruption). Academic Positions Present 2018 Assistant Professor University of Oregon Department of Computer and Information Science Education & Training Postdoc 2016 - 2018 Postdoctoral Researcher University of Michigan Department of Computer Science and Engineering Ph.D. 2011 - 2016 Doctor of Philosophy University of Southern California Department of Computer Science B.Sc. 2005 - 2010 Bachelor of Science Hanoi University of Science and Technology Center for Training of Excellent Students Honors, Awards and Grants 2016 Deployed Application Award, Innovative Applications of Artificial Intelligence (IAAI) The award is presented to Fei Fang, Thanh H. Nguyen , Rob Pickles, Wai Y. Lam, Gopalasamy R. Clements, Bo An, Amandeep Singh, Milind Tambe and Andrew Lemieux for the deployed application paper titled Deploying PAWS: Field Optimization of the Protection Assistant for Wildlife Security. 2016 Runner-up of the Best Innovative Application Paper Award at the 15th International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems (AAMAS) This is presented to Thanh H. Nguyen , Arunesh Sinha, Shahrzad Gholami, Andrew Plumptre, Lucas Joppa, Milind Tambe, Margaret Driciru, Fred Wanyama, Aggrey Rwetsiba, Rob Critchlow, and Colin Beale for the paper titled CAPTURE: A New Predictive Anti-Poaching Tool for Wildlife Protection. 2015 WiSE Merit Fellowship, University of Southern California The Merit Fellowship is offered to Ph.D. students at University of Southern California who demonstrate exceptional work in their field. Two women candidates are chosen from the Viterbi School of Engineering every year. 
