Zhaojun Bai Professor of Computer Science and Mathematics Faculty Scientist of Scalable Solvers Group at LBL Mailing address: Department of Computer Science University of California One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616 Office: 3005 Kemper Hall Phone: (530) 752-4874 Fax: (530) 752-4767 email: bai at cs.ucdavis.edu Winter office hours, January 7 - March 22, 2019 11:00 - 12:00, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays Teaching First-year seminar: Great ideas in computer science Discrete Mathematics for Computer Science (ECS20) Introduction to programming and problem solving (ECS30) Algorithm design and analysis (ECS122A), Spring 2019 Scientific Computation (ECS130) (Numerical Algorithms) Winter 2019 Applied Numerical Linear Algebra (ECS230) Large Scale Scientific Computing (ECS231), Spring 2019 Applied Parallel Scientific Computing (ECS289K) Publications Recent publications LAPACK Users' Guide, 3rd Edition, by E. Anderson, Z. Bai, C. Bischof, S. Blackford, J. Demmel, J. Dongarra, J. Du Croz, A. Greenbaum, S. Hammarling, A. McKenney, and D. Sorensen, xxvi+407 pages, SIAM, 1999 Introduction to LAPACK in Handbook of Linear Algebra (2nd edition), edited by L. Hogben ed., CRC Press, 2014 Templates for the Solution of Algebraic Eigenvalue Problems: A Practical Guide, Z. Bai, J. Demmel, J. Dongarra, A. Ruhe and H. van der Vorst eds., SIAM, 2000, xxix+410 pages. Krylov subspace techniques for reduced-order modeling of large-scale dynamical systems (Matlab routines and test data ) From Self-consistency to SOAR: Solving Large-Scale Nonlinear Eigenvalue Problems, SIAM News, April 2006. (Webpage) Numerical Methods for Quantum Monte Carlo Simulations of the Hubbard Model, in ``Multi-Scale Phenomena in Complex Fluids'', Thomas Y. Hou, Chun Liu and Jian-Guo Liu eds., pp.1-110, Higher Education Press and World Scientific, 2009 (ISBN-978-7-04-017358-1) Matrix Functions and Matrix Equations, edited by Z. Bai, W. Gao and Y. Su, Higher Education Press and World Scientific, 2015 Special Issue on Applied and Computational Mathematics, Science China Mathematics, August 2016 edited by Zhaojun Bai, Yu-Hong Dai, Weinan E, Chi-Wang Shu and Pingwen Zhang 2017 LSEC Summer School Lecture Notes on Advances in Algebraic Nonlinear Eigenvalue Problems. More publications Software LAPACK (source code site) Templates for the Solution of Algebraic Eigenvalue Problems: A Practical Guide QUEST:QUantum Electron Simulation Toolbox. (QUEST is a part of PETAMAT project on next generation multi-scale quantum simulation software for strongly correlated materials. Link to QUEST on code.google NEP Collection in MatrixMarkt, a collection of test matrices for large scale nonsymmetric eigenvalue problems. SRRIT: simultaneous iteration method for calculating the dominant invariant subspace of a nonsymmetric matrix (Algorithm 776 in ACMS TOMS, Vol.23, 1997) description article A simple tutorial on model order reduction of large scale dynamical systems by Krylov subspace-based methods (1) article (2) Matlab routines and test data Adaptive projection subspace dimension for the thick-restart Lanczos method (Paper, Software) A Pade approximate linearization algorithm for solving the quadratic eigenvalue problem with low-rank damping A tutorial on zwolf for OpenMP and CUDA parallel program For information about the following software, please contact bai@cs.ucdavis.edu ASEIG and ASFR: Algebraic substructuring for eigenvalue and frequency calculations (under LBNL Software License), August 2011 (Paper on Eigenvalue calculation) (Paper on frequency calculation) SUGAR: a simulation tool for MEMS devices PRISM: parallel research on invariant subspace methods for solving eigenvalue problems. Matlab codes for numerical computation of quadratic forms involving large-scale matrix functions Fortan routines of methods (QZ-based, matrix sign function, and inverse-free iteration) for solving generalized algebraic Riccati equations Bio-sketch: Zhaojun Bai is a Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Department of Mathematics, University of California, Davis, and a Faculty Computer Scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. He obtained his PhD from Fudan University, China and postdoctoral fellowship from Courant Institute, New York University. His main research interests include linear algebra algorithm design and analysis, mathematical software engineering and applications in computational science and engineering, and data science. He participated a number of synergistic projects, such as LAPACK. He is an Editors-in-Chief of ACM TOMS, and serves on editorial boards of JCM and Science China Mathematics among others. Previously, he served as an associate editor of SIMAX, vice chair of IEEE IPDPS and numerous other professional positions. He is a Fellow of SIAM. Links ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software (ACM TOMS) (ScholoarOne site) SIAM Journal on Matrix Analysis and Applications (SIMAX) Journal of Computational Mathematics SCIENCE CHINA Mathematics (ScholoarOne site) Applied Mathematics-A Journal of Chinese Universities Frontiers of Information Technology & Electronic Engineering SIAM Workshop on Exascale Applied Mathematics Challenges and Opportunities (EX14) Gene Golub SIAM Summer School 2013 (SIAM archive) Nick Higham's Matrix Computation Toolbox for MATLAB Professor Biswanath Mukherjee's talk ``How to be a Good Graduate Student'' video on YouTube and slide in pdf file Melvyl Math books Room reservation Online purchasing system Cayuse research suite Eric Bai's prize-winning draw (8 years old) 
