My Links My Home Page Books Classes Papers Reports and Notes Research Security in Programming Service Students Talks Miscellaneous My Family About Me (CV and such) Other Links Cybersecurity Club Computer Security Lab Dept. of Computer Science College of Engineering University of California, Davis City of Davis County of Yolo State of California United States of America Me This Quarters Classes Office Hours for This Quarter Contacting Me My Personal Blog (Last Entry November 23, 2018; Computer Security: Art and Science, Second Edition) Current Time in Davis, CA, USA Matt Bishop Department of Computer Science University of California, Davis One Shields Ave. Davis, CA 95616-8562 United States of America Office: 2209 Watershed Sciences Telephone: +1 (530) 752-8060 Fax: +1 (530) 752-4767 Email: bishop at ucdavis dot edu Office Co-ordinates: Latitude: N 38 32' 5'' Longitude: W 121 45' 10'' For graduate admissions, see below PGP key information here I am a professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of California at Davis. I am one of the co-directors of the Computer Security Laboratory here. Im also the faculty advisor to the UC Davis Cyber Security Club. I am blessed with a job that sends me traveling to interesting places. The picture above is me in the dining hall of the Cumberland Lodge at Great Windsor Park in the United Kingdom during the New Security Paradigms Workshop in 2018. --> I do research in computer security. Currently, my interests seem to focus on election processes, data sanitization, and the insider problem. I also like teaching. A second edition of my book Computer Security: Art and Science is scheduled to be released on November 30, 2018. Another version of the first edition, Introduction to Computer Security, was published in 2004, again by Addison-Wesley Professional. Check them out and see which you prefer. Graduate Admissions. Click here for information on being admitted to do graduate work in information assurance or computer security, including a link to the on-line application. Please do not write me asking about your chances of getting in, or if I will admit you. I get too many such letters to answer them, and my answers are the same for everyone: I dont know, and I do not have the authority to, respectively. There once was an old man from Esser, Whose knowledge grew lesser and lesser. It at last grew so small, He knew nothing at all, And now hes a college professor. Last updated on Friday, April 8, 2016 at 4:51:35 AM 
