UC Davis College of Engineering Maps and Directions Skip to content Home Biography Publications Teaching Research = Menu = HomeBiographyPublicationsTeachingResearch Jason Lowe-Power Assistant ProfessorJason Lowe-Power Check out our new and improved DArchR research group webpage! Its an exciting time to be a computer architect! For the past 40 years, weve relied on Moores Law and related manufacturing advances for the meteoric increase in computer performance. However, these advances are approaching their physical limits. To increase the efficiency of our devices and enable novel applications we must architect new hardware and computing systems. My research targets important end-to-end applications (e.g., big-data analytics) and develops new hardware, software, and systems to improve their performance increase their scalability. Computing systems performance improvements have brought the world amazing things: smart phones, Google search, machine learning, and now it is up to computer architects to enable the next wave of revolutionary applications. Im currently building an interdisciplinary research group to bridge the gap between advances in architecture and important new applications. If this sounds interesting to you, please shoot me an email (jlowepower@ucdavis.edu) or drop by my office during office hours. Id love to chat with you! Recruiting I am actively recruiting new Ph.D. students. I am looking for highly motivated, hard-working students with interest in computer architecture or strong application-specific backgrounds who want to work on cross-layer optimizations from the application through the system to the hardware. Research Interests Computer architecture, high-performance computing, memory system architecture, accelerator architecture. Office hours (Fall 2018) 3049 Kemper Hall Not scheduled, yet or by appointment (see my calendar and suggest a time). Im not teaching this quarter, so feel free to just drop by during office hours! Other links Group page Personal GitHub page Personal website Personal blog Old webpage at University of Wisconsin Comments are closed. Assistant Professor Jason Lowe-Power DArchR Research Group Computer Science 3049 Kemper Hall University of California Davis, CA 95616 jlowepower@ucdavis.edu Privacy and Accessibility UC Davis Principles of Community Copyright The Regents of the University of California, Davis campus. All Rights Reserved. 
