Ken Joy Emeritus Professor Computer Science Department Director, Institute for Data Analysis and Visualization University of California, Davis Phone: 1-530-752-1077 FAX: 1-530-752-4767 Email: joy at cs dot ucdavis dot edu Ken Joy is an Emeritus Professor in the Computer Science Department at the University of California at Davis. He came to UC Davis in 1980 in the Department of Mathematics and was a founding member of the Computer Science Department in 1983. Professor Joy's research and teaching interests are in the area of visualization, geometric modeling, and computer graphics. He is the Director of the Institute for Data Analysis and Visualization (IDAV) at UC Davis. This Institute provides an interdisciplinary research environment where practical data exploration problems from a variety of driving applications can be addressed. Over the years this Institute has involved over 200 researchers (both from UC Davis and their national and international partners). Within this environment, and with his research colleagues and graduate students, Professor Joy has collaborated over 200 publications focusing on computer graphics, computer-aided geometric design and scientific visualization. Specific projects have focused on large-scale data analysis, multiresolution modeling, computer vision, data compression, support for large-scale scientific simulations, and the visualization of complex data. He is the principal investigator, or co-principal investigator, on a number of grants involving material interface reconstruction, exploration of wide-area high-resolution aerial video, flow visualization, and uncertainty visualization. Professor Joy is one of UC Davis most decorated teachers. He was awarded the Distinguished Teaching Award, UC Davis highest honor in 1996, was awarded the Faculty Advisor of the Year in 1995, and has won numerous departmental- and student-based awards. Most citations focus on Professor Joys drive to produce outstanding student outcomes from his classes and research efforts and he has helped a small army of students start their own careers in the visualization and computer graphics fields. He is a member of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) and the IEEE Computer Society. He is a Faculty Computer Scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, and from 1997-2013 was a Visiting Scientist at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. He was co-chair of the EuroVis 2005 and 2006 conferences, was co-organizer of the Dagstuhl 2005 and 2007 Visualization Seminars, and serves on a number of conference program committees. He was general chair of the 2007 IEEE Visualization Conference, held in Sacramento CA, and was senior chair of the 2008 IEEE Visualization Conference, held in Columbus OH. In 2014, he was awarded the IEEE TVCG Career Award for his efforts in foundational research in the mathematical representation of data for visualization and for service to the community. Professor Joy received a B.A. (1968) and M.A. (1972) in Mathematics from UCLA, and a Ph.D. (1977) in Mathematics from the University of Colorado, Boulder. He has worked a number of years in the computer industry, and consults regularly on visualization, massive data analysis and geometric modeling. How to get to Ken's office. In October of 2010, Ken moved from his "old" office in Kemper Hall to 2079 Academic Surge Ken's Online Lectures. Online lectures in Geometric Modeling are available Ken's Talks Links to selected presentations and talks that Ken has given. Ken's Wall Pictures on the wall in Ken's office Publication List Links to the IDAV publication pages, where Ken's papers can be found. Websites for Grants Websites for various grants that are currently in progress Ken's Resume Ken's resume (last 10 years or so) Contact Information: Kenneth I. JoyDirector, Institute for Data Analysis and VisualizationProfessor, Computer Science Department University of California One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616-8562 Phone: (530) 752-1077 FAX: (530) 752-4767 email: joy at cs dot ucdavis dot edu 
