Ron Olsson olsson@cs.ucdavis.edu Department of Computer Science University of California, Davis One Shields Avenue Davis, CA 95616-8562 Phone: (530) 752-7004 Fax: (530) 752-4767 Recent Publications Research Projects Graduate Students Member, Editorial Board for the journal of Software Testing, Verification and Reliability Conferences/Workshops contacting me: email is best. However, I use a spam filter that filters out most common spam. I have also configured the spam filter with additional rules to treat as spam any mail from sites that, in my experience, apparently do nothing to stop spam. (Some sites are entire countries, regions, or ISPs.) So, if you are sending me mail from one of those sites, your mail will be considered spam and you won't get a reply. If you don't hear from me in a reasonable time, then send me mail from another site (e.g., get a yahoo or hotmail account). You might also complain to your site's administrators so perhaps they will become responsive to stopping spam. Mail with a blank, non-descriptive, or non-ASCII text Subject field will most likely be considered as spam. Always use an appropriately descriptive, yet short Subject field. After reading the remaining items below, if you still believe I will want to read your mail, then you can bypass my spam checker by including the exact ASCII string <Olssonunspam> in the Subject field of your message. (Be sure to include the < and >.) Current or prospective students in my classes. For current students, consult the course syllabus about whether it is appropriate to email me or to post a message to SmartSite; in most cases, the latter is the appropriate and I will likely not respond to your email message. If you do email me, be sure to include the course number enclosed in brackets in the Subject field of your message; e.g., [ECS140A] (Be sure to include the [ and ] and do not include any spaces within the brackets.) Prospective graduate students. Due to the high volume of requests, I am able to respond only to messages from students who have already been admitted to our program (unless, of course, I already know you). To others, sorry, but please do not send me application information, vitas, etc.; instead, follow the directions on the department's graduate admissions page or contact gradinfo@cs.ucdavis.edu. Incoming or current UCD graduate students looking for advising. Email your advising questions to our graduate staff advisor Jessica Stoller). Prospective research assistants, research associates, postdocs, (graduate, undergraduate, high school, etc.) interns, etc. Sorry, but I am not currently looking to hire anyone in such a position. However, I will consider candidates who have their own sources of funding, but be sure to clearly indicate that you do in your message; otherwise, I'll likely just ignore it. (If my plans change, I will update this webpage.) I typically do have a few UCD undergraduates work with me on research for independent study credit. However, I take on students who I have already had in class, who have done very well, and generally only after they've had ECS140B, since that's the skill set and level of sophistication the students need to assist in my work. To those outside of UCD: Sorry, but I don't have the time to serve as a mentor, advisor, etc. on your project, etc. Current or prospective UCD undergraduate majors looking for advising. Sorry, but I'm not one of the faculty who does advising. Email your advising questions to our undergraduate staff advisor (Lori Avellar or Natasha Coulter) or see another advisor during advising hours. Prospective employers or others looking to hire or contact our students. Please email details to a staff advisor (undergrads: Lori Avellar or Natasha Coulter; grads: Jessica Stoller) and they will post the information to our students. 
