 Research Interests Constraint based reasoning and Constraint Programming. Efficient constraint propagation algorithms, tractable constraint satisfaction problems and search algorithms Knowledge representation and reasoning. Specifically, nonmonotonic logic programming. Efficient reasoning algorithms and systems, modeling methodology and its application. Hybrid knowledge representation and reasoning. Languages able to represent and reason with multiple types of knowledge like constraint, common sense and probabilistic knowledge. Efficient reasoning algorithms for those languages. Information retrieval. Particularly, semi-structured data extraction Application of Artificial Intelligence techniques to healthcare problems. Teaching Intorduction to Artificial Intelligence Theory of Automata Principles of Constraint Programming Introduction to Programming Principles Logic for Computer Scientist Special topics in Artificial Intelligence Projects Multimorbidity, Clinical Practice Guidelines and Automated Reasoning (where you can find publications, source code and web applications) Publications (selected) Full list DBLP list Yuanlin Zhang, Roland H. C. Yap. Solving Functional Constraints by Variable Elimination. Theory and Practice of Logic Programming, accepted, 2010 Yuanlin Zhang, Satyanarayana Marisetti. Solving connected row convex constraints by variable elimination. Artificial Intelligence 173 (12-13): 1204-1219, 2009 Yuanlin Zhang, Eugene C. Freuder: Properties of tree convex constraints. Artificial Intelligence 172(12-13): 1605-1612, 2008 Veena S. Mellarkod, Michael Gelfond, and Yuanlin Zhang. Integrating answer set programming and constraint logic programming. Annals of Mathematics and Artificial Intelligence 53: 251-287, 2008. Yuanlin Zhang and Roland H. C. Yap. Set Intersection and Consistency in Constraint Networks. Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research, 27, 441-464, 2006 Zhijun Lin, Yuanlin Zhang, and Hector Hernandez. Fast SAT-based Answer Set Solver, In Proceedings of AAAI-2006. [PDF] Chavalit Likitvivatanavong, Yuanlin Zhang, James Bowen, and Eugene C. Freuder. Maintaining arc consistency using adaptive domain ordering, In Proceedings of IJCA-2005. [PDF] Christian Bessiere, Jean-Charles Regin, Roland H.C. Yap and Yuanlin Zhang. An optimal coarse-grained arc consistency algorithm. Artificial Intelligence Journal 165(2): 165-185, 2005, [PDF] Yuanlin Zhang and Roland Yap. Consistency and Set Intersection. In Proceedings of Eighteenth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-03), Acapulco, Mexico, 2003. [PDF] Yuanlin Zhang and Roland Yap. Erratum: P. van Beek and R. Dechters Theorem on Constraint Looseness and Local Consistency. Journal of the ACM, vol. 50, num 3, 2003, pp 277-279. [PDF] Bio Yuanlin Zhang studied Computer Science and Engineering in East-China Institute of Technology and Mathematics in Nanjing University, Nanjing, China. He obtained his doctoral degree in Computer Science from National University of Singapore. His PhD work is on the understanding of efficient constraint solving in the context of Constraint Programming and contributes to the design of efficient and elegant algorithms for constraint propagation and for solving constraint satisfaction problems with special properties. Yuanlin worked as a Teaching Assistant in National University of Singapore for five years. He was a research staff at Cork Constraint Computation Center in University College Cork, Cork, Ireland, before he joined Computer Science Department of Texas Tech University, Lubbock, Texas. More information can be found in his CV. 
