["Professor of Electrical Engineering-Systems and Aerospace and Mechanical EngineeringEducationDiploma, Mechanical Engineering, University of BelgradeDoctoral Degree, Mechanical Engineering, University of California - Santa BarbaraMaster's Degree, Control Engineering, University of Belgrade BiographyMihailo R. Jovanovic is a professor in the Ming Hsieh Department of Electrical Engineering and the founding director of the Center for Systems and Control at the University of Southern California. He received the Dipl. Ing. and M.S. degrees from the University of Belgrade, Serbia, in 1995 and 1998, respectively, and the Ph.D. degree from the University of California, Santa Barbara, in 2004, under the direction of Bassam Bamieh. He was a visiting researcher with the Department of Mechanics, the Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden, from September to December 2004, and a faculty in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, from December 2004 until January 2017. He has held visiting positions with Stanford University and the Institute for Mathematics and its Applications.  Professor Jovanovic's expertise is in modeling, dynamics, and control of large-scale and distributed systems and his current research focuses on large-scale and distributed optimization, design of controller architectures, sparsity-promoting optimal control, fundamental limitations in the design of large dynamic networks, and dynamics/control of fluid flows. He currently serves as a Guest Editor (of the Special Issue on Analysis, Control and Optimization of Energy System Networks in the IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems) and as an Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems, and had served as the Chair of the American Physical Society (APS) External Affairs Committee, a Program Vice-Chair of the 55th IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, an Associate Editor of the SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization (from 2014 until 2017), and an Associate Editor of the IEEE Control Systems Society Conference Editorial Board (from 2006 until 2010).  Professor Jovanovic is a fellow of APS and IEEE. He received a CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation in 2007, an Early Career Award from the University of Minnesota Initiative for Renewable Energy and the Environment in 2010, a Resident Fellowship within the Institute on the Environment at the University of Minnesota in 2012, the George S. Axelby Outstanding Paper Award from the IEEE Control Systems Society in 2013, the University of Minnesota Informatics Institute Transdisciplinary Research Fellowship in 2014, and the Distinguished Alumnus Award from the Department of Mechanical Engineering at UC Santa Barbara in 2014. Papers of his students were finalists for the Best Student Paper Award at the American Control Conference in 2007 and 2014.Research SummaryControl theory and applications; design of controller architectures; dynamics and control of fluid flows; fundamental limitations in the design of large networks of dynamical systems; large-scale and distributed optimization; modeling, dynamics, and control of large-scale and distributed systems; sparsity-promoting optimal control.Awards2018 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Fellow2017 American Physical Society Fellow2016 Institute on the Environment, University of Minnesota, Fellow2014 Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of California at Santa Barbara Distinguished Alumus Award2014 Informatics Institute, University of Minnesota, Transdisciplinary Faculty Fellow2013 IEEE Control Systems Society George S. Axelby Outstanding Paper Award2013 IEEE Senior Member2012 Institute on the Environment, University of Minnesota, Resident Fellow2010 Initiative for Renewable Energy and the Environment, University of Minnesota, Early Career Award2007 National Science Foundation CAREER Award2005 IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control Outstanding ReviewerAppointmentsDirector, Center for Systems and ControlsMing Hsieh Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering - SystemsAerospace and Mechanical Engineering OfficeEEB 324Hughes Aircraft Electrical Engineering Center3740 McClintock Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90089USC Mail Code: 2562 Contact Information(213) 740-4474mihailo@usc.eduWebsitesCV LinkPersonal WebsitePublications"]
