["Gordon S. Marshall Chair in Engineering and Professor of Electrical Engineering-Systems and Computer ScienceEducationDoctoral Degree, Electrical Engineering, Princeton UniversityMaster's Degree, Electrical Engineering, University of California - BerkeleyBachelor's Degree, Electrical Engineering, University of California - Berkeley BiographyPh.D. in Electrical Engineering, 1994, Princeton University, Priceton, NJ. Urbashi Mitra received the B.S. and the M.S. degrees from the University of California at Berkeley in 1987 (high honors) and 1989 respectively, both in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. From 1989 until 1990 she worked as a Member of Technical Staff at Bellcore in Red Bank, NJ. In 1994, she received her Ph.D. from Princeton University in Electrical Engineering. From 1994 to 2000, Dr. Mitra was an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering at The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio. She became an Associate Professor in 2000.  She joined the University of Southern California in 2001 and was promoted to Full Professor in 2005.  She was a Dean's Professor of Electrical Engineering from 2015 to 2017; she is currently the Gordon S. Marshall Chair in Engineeirng.  At the University of Southern California, Dr. Mitra is a member of the Communication Sciences Institute, the Signal and Image Processing Institute, and the Bridge Institute; she holds a courtesy appointment in the Department of Computer Science. Dr. Mitra is currently co-Director of the Communication Sciences Institute.Research SummaryMy research has focussed on problems in communication theory, information theory, and signal processing. While my early work centered on wireless communication systems as motivated by commercial applications, my current research endeavors to address fundamental questions at the boundaries of communication, estimation, and control for science.  Early work on wireless communications focused on point-to-point communication (transmitter to receiver) which then evolved to recognize that methods had to be designed for networks of users. We are now at a point where we must consider networks wherein communication, sensing and control must be jointly designed. Key applications in which we have considered such joint communication, control and sensing problems include wireless body area networks (WBANs) for mobile health, joint spectrum sensing, resource allocation and communication for cognitive radio,  network design for collections of underwater autonomous vehicles and finally, the current application of microbial networks.  We have also had a focus on the application and adaptation of modern statistical methods (sparse approximation, low-rank, etc.) to a variety of communication and signal processing problems.  Keywords: cognitive radio, V2V communications, structure signal processing methods, compressed sensing, matrix completion and factorization, target localization, channel estimation,  molecular diffusion channels, microbial community modeoling, underwater acoustic communications, wireless body area sensing networks, adaptive algorithms, equalization, wireless resource allocation, ultra wideband communications, and sensor networks.Awards2015 USC Center for Applied Mathematics Student Prize Student Prize (advisor, USC-wide competition)2015 IEEE Communications Society Distinguished Lecturer2015 INSIGHT Into Diversity Magazine Inspiring Women in STEM Award2015 Viterbi School of  Engineering Dean's Professor of Electrical Engineering2015 IEEE Communications Society inaugural Editor in Chief2012 International Conference on Signal Processing and Communications, Bangalore India, Student Best Paper Award (advisor)2012 IEEE Globecom 2012 Conference Globecom 2012 Best Paper Award2012 National Academy of Engineering Lillian Gilbreth Lectureship2011 NAE U.S. National Academy of Engineering  and Chinese Academy of Engineering 2011 China-America Frontiers of Engineering Symposium Speaker2009 IEEE DCOSS Conference Best Applications Paper Award2009 Viterbi School of Engineering Dean's Faculty Service Award2009 USC USC Remarkable Woman Award2008 USC/Mellon Foundation USC Mellon Mentoring Award (Faculty-to-Faculty)2007 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Fellow of Professional Society2003 NAE National Academy of Engineering Frontiers in Engineering Symposium Participant2001 Okawa Foundation Okawa Award2000 Ohio State College of Engineering Lumley Research Award1997 Ohio State University Engineers' Student Council Charles E. MacQuigg Student Award for Outstanding Teaching1996 National Science Foundation CAREER GrantAppointmentsMing Hsieh Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering - SystemsComputer Science OfficeEEB 536Hughes Aircraft Electrical Engineering Center3740 McClintock Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90089USC Mail Code: 2565 Contact Information(213) 740-4667ubli@usc.eduWebsitesPersonal WebsitePublications"]
