['Solomon Golomb - Andrew and Erna Viterbi Chair, and Professor of Electrical Engineering-SystemsEducation1999, Doctoral Degree, Mobile Communications, Tech. University of Vienna (Wien)Doctoral Degree, Electrical Engineering, Tech. University of Vienna (Wien)Master\'s Degree, Electrical Engineering, Tech. University of Vienna (Wien), Other Communication, Tech. University of Vienna (Wien) BiographyAndreas F. Molisch received the Dipl. Ing., Dr. techn., and habilitation degrees from the Technical University Vienna (Austria) in 1990, 1994, and 1999, respectively. From 1991 to 2000, he was with the TU Vienna, becoming an associate professor there in 1999. From 2000-2002, he was with the Wireless Systems Research Department at AT&T (Bell) Laboratories Research in Middletown, NJ. From 2002-2008, he was with Mitsubishi Electric Research Labs, Cambridge, MA, USA, most recently as Distinguished Member of Technical Staff and Chief Wireless Standards Architect. Concurrently he was also Professor and Chairholder for radio systems at Lund University, Sweden. Since 2009, he is Professor of Electrical Engineering at the University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA, and in 2016, he was appointed to the Solomon Golomb - Andrew and Erna Viterbi Chair.  Dr. Molisch has done research in the areas of SAW filters, radiative transfer in atomic vapors, atomic line filters, smart antennas, wideband systems, and cooperative communications. His current research interests are measurement and modeling of mobile radio channels, multi-antenna systems, UWB communication and localization, novel modulation/multiple access methods, and wireless video distributtion. Dr. Molisch has authored, co-authored or edited four books (among them the textbook "Wireless Communications, Wiley-IEEE Press), nineteen book chapters, 240 journal papers, and numerous conference contributions, as well as more than 80 patents and 70 standards contributions.   Dr. Molisch is Division Editor for the Journal of Communications and Networks, and has co-edited special issues of numerous journals. He has been General Chair, TPC chair, and symposium chair of many international conferences. He has participated in the European research initiatives "COST 231", "COST 259", and "COST273", where he was chairman of the MIMO channel working group; he was chairman of the IEEE 802.15.4a channel model standardization group; and he currently heads the channel modeling group of the 5G-mmwave channel modeling alliance. From 2005-2008, he was chairman of Commission C (signals and systems) of URSI (International Union of Radio Scientists), from 2009-2010, he was the Chair of the Radio Communications Committee of the IEEE Communications Society (ComSoc), and he is currently a board member of IEEE Press. Dr. Molisch is a Fellow of the National Academy of Inventors, Fellow of the IEEE, Fellow of the AAAS, Fellow of the IET, an IEEE Distinguished Lecturer, a Member of the Austrian Academcy of Sciences, and recipient of numerous awards. Research SummaryDr. Molisch\'s current research interests concentrate on the following areas:  WIRELESS PROPAGATION: As new wireless technologies are introduced, it is vital to understand and model the properties of the wireless propagation channel that are relevant for those channels. The well-known conventional channel models (Rayleigh fading, Hata pathloss model) are therefore not sufficient for designing and analyzing modern broadband systems. Dr. Molisch is interested in measurement and fundamental modeling techniques for propagation channels for wireless broadband systems  from massive MIMO channels, to vehicle-to-vehicle propagation, ultrawideband channels, to mm-wave and THz channels. Hallmark of his work in the area is a holistic approach that pays equal attention to conducting measurement campaigns (including construction of required equipment), advanced signal processing for evaluating the measurement results, and innovative channel modeling.   ULTRAWIDEBAND COMMUNICATIONS AND LOCALIZATION: UWB transmission is a physical-layer communication technique that has received enormous interest that is of great importance for both high-speed wireless communications and precision localization. Emphasis is on simplified transceiver structures, and localization techniques based on time of arrival, including multi-target identification, single-anchor localization, and NLOS identification.   MULTIPLE ANTENNA TECHNIQUES: Multiple-antenna (MIMO) systems are the best and most efficient way to providing the high data rates and high spectral efficiencies that are required for next-generation cellular systems and wireless internet. Dr. Molischs  research concentrates on  (i) reducing costs through hybrid beamforming, a technique he invented in 2003, and which is now widely used especially for massive MIMO.  (ii) improving spectral efficiency and robustness through cooperation between base stations.   NOVEL MODULATION/MULTIPLE ACCESS METHODS: While MIMO/OFDM/OFDMA has become the standard modulation/multiple access method for modern wireless systems, and they are optimum under certain conditions, there are situations in which alternatives are preferable. Dr. Molisch investigates novel approaches ranging from novel multi-carrier schemes to multiplexing via Orbital Angular Momenta.  WIRELESS VIDEO DISTRIBUTION: the emergence of wireless video services puts an extra strain on cellular networks. A highly promising method for increasing capacity is caching of popular video files either in dedicated helper nodes (femtocaching) that replace backhaul with storage, and/or caching in the mobile devices themselves, and exchanging them via device-to-device communication when requested. Aspects ranging from physical-layer device-to-device communications to application-layer video considerations are being investigated.Awards2018 IEEE Communications Society Edwin H Armstrong Achievement Award2017 IEEE Communications Society IEEE Distinguished Lecturer (Communications Society)2017  IET Achievement Medal for contributions to wireless communications2015  Fellow of the National Academy of Inventors2015 USC Viterbi Viterbi Award for Use-Inspired Research2015 IEEE Neal Shepherd Memorial Award of the IEEE Vehicular Technology Society2015 IEEE IEEE Distinguished Lecturer (Vehicular Technology Society)2013 Hungarian Scientific Association for Infocomm (HTE) Puskas Tivadar Award2013 AAAS (American Association for the Advancement of Science) Fellow of the AAAS2012 IEEE Eric Sumner Award2011 Radio Communications Committee of the IEEE Communications Society Distinguished Service Award2011 IEEE Donald G. Fink Prize Paper Award2011 Austrian Academy of Sciences Member of the Austrian Academy of Sciences2010 Okawa Foundation 2010 Okawa Research Grant2010 IEEE Vehicular Technology Society James R. Evans Avant-garde Award2010 Beihang University Honorary Guest Professor2009 IEEE Communications Society Best paper award, IEEE Globecom 20092009 Global Wireless Education Consortium Wireless Educator of the Year Award2008 IET (institute of Engineering and Technology) Fellow of the IET2007 Mitsubishi Electric Hatsuhon-Award2006 IEEE Vehicular Technology Society Neal Shepherd Memorial Award2005 IEEE Fellow of the IEEE2001 Swedish Strategic Research Foundation INGVAR award1999 Kardinal-Innitzer foundation Kardinal-Innitzer-Award1991 Austrian Society of Electrical Engineering GIT awardAppointmentsMing Hsieh Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering - Systems OfficeEEB 530Hughes Aircraft Electrical Engineering Center3740 McClintock Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90089USC Mail Code: 2565 Contact Information(213) 740-4670molisch@usc.eduWebsitesResearch Website']
