["Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering-Systems and Computer ScienceEducation2013, Doctoral Degree, Computer Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign2007, Master's Degree, Computer Engineering, Institute of Computing Technology2004, Bachelor's Degree, Computer Engineering, Beihang University BiographyI have a Ph.D. from the Computer Science Department at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. I lead ALCHEM (Architecture Lab for Creative High-performance Energy-efficient Machines) at USC. Our group focuses on computer architecture, its interactions with software/systems and the implication of emerging technologies. Our research takes a vertical approach and considers multifaceted aspects to realize the vision of correct, high performance and energy efficient intelligent systems. The unique vertical approach tackles the challenges by focusing on the interactions across multiple system stacks including applications, programming model, runtime/compiler, architecture and emerging technology. This approach fully exploits all the opportunities that are not sufficient, or even possible if only one system layer is considered. We are currently working on several topics including Correctness of Concurrency, Data Movement and Performance, Architectural Supports for Irregular Applications, Embedded Intelligence, Non-Volatile Memory (NVM) Systems and Stochastic Computing for Machine Learning.Research SummaryComputer architecture. System and architecture for graph processing and machine learning. Hardware acceleration with emerging technologiesAwards2015 Heidelberg Laureate Forum Foundation (HLFF) One of 200 selected to participate2013 UIUC W.J. Poppelbaum Memorial Award2011 UIUC Nominated for an IBM Ph.D. Fellowship2008 UIUC Nominated for a Microsoft Research Ph.D. Fellowship2007 UIUC Andrew and Shana Laursen Fellowship2007 ICT, CAS Outstanding Masters Thesis Award2007 ICT, CAS NOKIA Fellowship2004 Beihang University Outstanding Bachelors Thesis Award2003 Beihang University QIAN Changzhao AwardAppointmentsMing Hsieh Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering - SystemsComputer Science OfficeEEB EEB 204Hughes Aircraft Electrical Engineering Center3740 McClintock Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90089USC Mail Code: 2562 Contact Information(213) 740-4459xuehai.qian@usc.eduWebsitesCV LinkResearch WebsitePersonal Website"]
