["Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science and Electrical Engineering-ElectrophysicsEducation2011, Doctoral Degree, Applied Science and Technology, University of California - BerkeleyMaster's Degree, Metallurgical Engineering, Indian Institute of TechnologyBachelor's Degree, Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology BiographyJayakanth Ravichandran is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science at University of Southern California, Los Angeles. He received his B.Tech and M.Tech in Metallurgical and Materials Engineering from Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur in 2007. He obtained a PhD from University of California, Berkeley in 2011, and subsequently held post-doctoral positions at Columbia University and Harvard University. His research interests include thin film science and technology of complex oxides and chalcogenides and transport processes such as electrical, thermal, electrochemical transport in complex materials. Dr. Ravichandran has won several accolades including Institute Silver Medal (IIT Kharagpur), Link Energy Fellowship. The capabilities of Ravichandran's group include growth of high quality materials such as complex oxide and chalcogenides in the bulk, and thin film form to study their transport and spectroscopic characteristics of these material systems.Research SummaryI am interested in the physics, materials science, and applications of emerging complex materials. The systems of interest range from ionic oxide materials to more covalent chalcogenides. My group is studying both thermodynamically stable materials, and metastable systems in the film form to achieve the desired functionalities in these systems. Our synthetic capabilities range from bulk ceramic processing, single crystal growth, to state-of-the-art thin film growth techniques with in situ and real time structural and chemical characterization methods. My group also specializes in transport measurements (primarily electron transport) over a wide temperature range. Our application interest typically centers on energy systems (thermoelectric, photovoltaic energy conversion), and emerging electronic and photonic devices using new materials. From the teaching point of view, I am interested in teaching courses that enable understanding of stability, transformation, and physical and chemical properties of solid state materials. I often teach graduate courses, but have recently floated an undergraduate course focused on sustainable energy concepts from the materials science point of view. My teaching philosophy is to encourage the students to think and understand the material rather than rote learning, and hope to achieve this using an interactive, discussion oriented classroom.  My research group focuses on synthesis, characterization, transport properties of complex materials especially oxides and chalcogenides. Typical synthesis procedures used are thin film growth using pulsed laser deposition, bulk ceramic processing, and crystal growth techniques. The thin film growth capabilities are accompanied with in-situ, real time monitoring tools such as reflection high energy diffraction (RHEED), and Auger Electron Spectroscopy (AES). For thin film growth, the systems of interest are heteroepitaxial in nature and frequently, consist of superlattices and other long range ordered metamaterials. Besides routine structural, chemical and spectroscopic characterizations, the group has expertise in performing electrical,  thermoelectric measurements over a wide range of temperatures (2-800 K), often under the influence of magnetic field. Our research program spans the whole range from synthesis to devices with applications in energy, electronics etc. Our group has strong collaborative ties with a number of groups whose background range from basic science to engineering research.AppointmentsMork Family Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials ScienceMing Hsieh Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering - Electrophysics OfficeVHE 714Vivian Hall of Engineering3651 Watt Way, Los Angeles, CA 90089USC Mail Code: 0241 Contact Information(213) 740-0453jayakanr@usc.eduWebsitesCV LinkResearch WebsitePublications"]
