["Robert G. and Mary G. Lane Endowed Early Career Chair and Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering-Electrophysics and Chemical Engineering and Materials ScienceEducation2013, Doctoral Degree, Massachusetts Institute of Technology2008, Master's Degree, Electrical and Information Science, Cambridge University2007, Bachelor's Degree, Electrical and Information Science\n, Cambridge University BiographyHan Wang joined Ming Hsieh Department of Electrical Engineering as an Assistant Professor in August 2014. He received the B.A. and M.Eng. degrees in electrical and information science, both with highest honors, from Cambridge University, England, in 2007 and 2008. He received his PhD degree from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 2013. From 2013 to 2014, he is with the Nanoscale Science and Technology group at IBM T. J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, NY. His research interests include the device technology and novel circuit applications of two-dimensional (2D) materials including black phosphorus, graphene, hBN, MoS2, WS2, etc., with emphasis on exploring both the fundamental understanding and new applications of novel nanomaterials in ubiquitous electronics, THz electronics, plasmonic devices, energy efficient applications, and interaction with biological systems. His past research also includes GaN-based III-V HEMTs for high power millimeter-wave applications and Si power electronic devices.  His work has been recognized with multiple awards including the Roger A. Haken Best Paper Award in IEEE International Electron Device Meeting (IEDM) 2012, MIT Jin-Au Kong Best Doctoral Thesis Award 2013, International Conference on Compound Semiconductor Manufacturing Technology (CS MANTECH) 2010 Best Student Paper Award, Cambridge University Agilent Prize and numerous fellowships. Dr. Wang has authored or coauthored more than 50 publications in distinguished journals and conferences. His work has been reported by Nature, Science, Nature Materials, IEEE Spectrum, EE Times and ACS C&E News.Research SummaryOur research is at the intersection of nano-electronics, nanophotonics and materials science, exploring topics such as: Advanced nanoelectronic materials for communication, sensing and energy applications Science and technology of novel nanomaterials, e.g. black phosphorus, MoS2, WSe2, graphene, hBN, etc. Energy-efficient electronics, optoelectronics and their interface with biological systems New materials for THz electronics and power electronics applicationAwards2017 Nano Research and Tsinghua University Press (TUP) Top Paper Award2017 National Science Foundation (NSF) CAREER Award2015 USC Zumberge Faculty Research Individual Award2013 MIT  MIT Jin-Au Kong Best Doctoral Thesis Award2012 IEDM Roger A. Haken Best Paper Award in IEEE International Electron Device Meeting2010 International Conference on Compound Semiconductor Manufacturing Technology (CS MANTECH)  Best Student Paper AwardAppointmentsMing Hsieh Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering - ElectrophysicsMork Family Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science OfficePHE 630Charles Lee Powell Hall3737 Watt Way, Los Angeles, CA 90089USC Mail Code: 271 Contact Information(213) 821-4293wang679@usc.eduWebsitesResearch Website"]
