 Sibin Mohan My Research/Professional Page... Menu About Me Research CV Publications Professional Personal About Me I am currently working as a Research Assistant Professor in the Dept. of Computer Science and the Information Trust Institute at at the University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign (UIUC). My research interests are primarily in the Computer Systems area. Much of my research aims to improve the resiliency of cyber-physical systems , r eal-time and embedded systems as well as the Internet-of-Things domains. To improve resiliency, my research group has worked on novel security mechanisms for these domains as well as robust networking and platform architectures. Read more about me. SyNeRCyS : My Research Group and our current projects. [ CV Research Statement Teaching Statement Diversity Statement References ] Selected News [New] [December 2018] Multiple journal papers accepted : one on restart-based security platforms for safety-critical CPS in IEEE IoT journal and a survey on the security of real-time IoT systems in the SENSORS Journal. [New] [November 2018] Our paper on automatically finding bugs in PLCs used in manufacturing systems has been accepted for publication in IEEE S&P 2019! [New] [November 2018] CSL recently wrote up about our recent efforts at teaching programming to middle school students in Urbana. [August 2018] New project, funded by Boeing, on " Machine Learning-Based Communication and Anomaly Detection in Dis- tributed Autonomous UAV Swarms ". [November December 2017 ] Multiple papers accepted , one at DATE 2018 , one at IC2E 2018 and two at ICCPS 2018 . [October 2017 ] New project, funded by NSF, on understanding security threats to real-time and cyber-physical systems and how to protect against them, An Exploration of Schedule-based Vulnerabilities in Real-Time Embedded Systems . [October 2017 ] New project, funded by ONR, on developing secure, lightweight, cloud computing systems titled, Tools and Techniques for Debloating Containers . [June 2017 ] New project, funded by the DoE, on cybersecurity defenses for renewable energy sources titled, INGRESS: Advanced Cybersecurity Platform for Distributed Energy Resources . Press articles : 1 , 2 . [ December 2016 ] Our paper titled, "Exploring Opportunistic Execution for Integrating Security into Legacy Hard Real-Time Systems" won the best student paper award at the IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium (RTSS) 2016 conference. This is the premier conference in the field of real-time systems. [ October 2016 ] Started new NSF Frontiers project on " Software-Defined Control for Smart Manufacturing Systems " funded by the National Science Foundation (NSF). This is a multi-university project [including Univ. of Michigan and Cornell] that aims to improve the design and security of manufacturing systems of the future. News about the project . All News... . Research My research interests are in the Systems , Networking and Security areas -- especially the intersection between two or more of these areas. To be more specific: Cyber-Physical Systems, Embedded and Real-Time Systems, Security, IoT,Software-Defined Networks,Cloud Computing and Operating Systems. The SyNeRCyS Research group page has more details about each of the projects. Current Research Projects [In Reverse Chronological Order]: Machine-Learning Based Communication and Anomaly Detection in Distributed Autonomous Systems Tools and Techniques for De-bloating Containers An exploration of Schedule-based Vulnerabilities in Real-Time Embedded Systems INGRESS: Advanced Cybersecurity Platform for Distributed Energy Resources Software-defined Networking in Smart Grid Networks Software-Defined Control for Smart Manufacturing Systems Integration of Security in Hard Real-Time Systems Behavior-based Intrusion Detection Total Funding: $13.676 million [UIUC Share: $5.576 million] Past projects: System integration for Complex Safety-Critical Systems [Virtual Integration] Plug and play Medical Devices Timing Analysis for Modern Multicore Processors Timing Analysis for Contemporary Processors Parametric Timing Analysis and Dynamic Voltage Scaling for Hard Real-Time Systems Timing Analysis for Sensor Network Nodes. . Publications List. Journal Publications Preserving Physical Safety Under Cyber Attacks by F. Abdi, M. Hasan, C. Y. Chen, S. Mohan and M. Caccamo. Accepted forpublication in the IEEE Internet-of-Things, Journal 2018. Securing Real-Time Internet-of-Things by C. Y. Chen, M. Hasan and S. Mohan. Submitted to the Accepted for publication in the SENSORS Journal, Special Issue on Design and Implementation of Future CPS, 2018. Integrating Security Constraints into Fixed-Priority Real-Time Systems by S. Mohan, M. K. Yoon, R. Pellizzoni and R. Bobba. Real-Time Systems (RTS) Journal, 52(5): 644-674 . Intrusion Detection for CPS Real-Time Controllers by C. Zimmer, B. Bhatt, F. Mueller and S. Mohan. Publishedin the Springler-Verlag book Cyber Physical Systems Approach to Smart Electric Power Grid book series: Understanding Complex Systems in November 2014. [ pdf ] Parametric Timing Analysis and its Application to DVS by S. Mohan and F. Mueller. Publishedin the ACM Journal Transactions in Embedded Computing Systems (TECS), Vol. 10, No. 2, Dec. 2010 (accepted 2007). In submission : Integrating Security and Mode Changes in Real-Time Systems byM. Hasan, S. Mohan, R. Pellizzoni and R. Bobba. Submitted to the IEEE Transactions in Computing (TC), 2018. Inter-flow Consistency in SDN Network Updates: Abstractions and Optimizations byS. Padhy, K. Evchenko, W. Liu, R. Bobba, S. Mohan and R. Campbell. Submitted to the IEEE Transactions on Depdendable and Secure Computing (TDSC), 2018. Conference Publications A Novel Side-Channel in Real-Time Scheduler by C-Y. Chen, A. Ghassami, S. Mohan, R. Bobba, R. Pellizzoni and N. Kiyavash. Accepted for Publication in the IEEE conference Real-Time and Embedded Systems and Applications Symposium (RTAS), April 2019 to be held in Montreal, Canada . Towards AutomatedSafety Vetting of PLC Code in Real-World Plants by M. Zhang, C-Y. Chen, B. Kao, Y. Qamsane, Y.Shao, Y. Lin, E. Shi, S. Mohan, K. Barton, J. Moyne and Z. Mao. Accepted for Publication in the IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (S&P) 2019, to be held in San Francisco, CA . Special Session: The Future of IoT Security by S. Mohan, M. Asplund, G. Bloom, A. Sadeghi, A. Ibrahim, N. Salajageh, P. Griffioen and B.Sinopoli. Publishedin the International Conference on Embedded Software (EMSOFT) 2018, held in Turin, Italy . Guaranteed Physical Security with Restart-Based Design for Cyber-Physical Systems by F. Abdi, C. Y. Chen, M. Hasan, S. Mohan and M. Caccamo. Published in the ACM/IEEE International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems (ICCPS) 2018, held in Porto, Portugal. SDCWorks: A Formal Framework for Software-Defined Control of Smart Manufacturing Systems by M. Potok, C.Y. Chen, S. Mitra and S. Mohan. Published in the ACM/IEEE International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems (ICCPS) 2018, held in Porto, Portugal. Scheduling, Isolation, and Cache Allocation: A Side-Channel Defense by R. Sprabery, K. Evchenko, A. Raj, R. Bobba, S. Mohan and R. Campbell. Published in the IEEE International Conference on Cloud Engineering (IC2E), held in April 2018. A Design-Space Exploration for Allocating Security Tasks in Multicore Real-Time Systems by M. Hasan, S. Mohan, R. Pellizzoni and R. Bobba. Published in the Design Automation and Test in Europe (DATE) conference, held in March 2018. End-to-End Network Delay Guarantees for Real-Time Systems using SDN by R. Kumar, M. Hassan, S. Padhy, K. Evchenko, L. Piramanayagam, S. Mohan and R. Bobba. Published in the IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium (RTSS), held in December 2017. Contego: An Adaptive Framework for Integrating Security Tasks in Real-Time Systems by M. Hassan, S. Mohan, R. Bobba and R. Pellizzoni. Published in the EUROMICRO Conference on Real-Time Systems (ECRTS), June 2017. Learning Execution Contexts from System Call Distribution for Anomaly Detection in Smart Embedded System by M. K. Yoon, S. Mohan, J. Choi, M. Christodorescu and L. Sha. Published in the ACM/IEEE International Conference on Internet-Of-Things Design and Implementation (IoTDI), April 2017. Exploring Opportunistic Execution for Integrating Security into Legacy Hard Real-Time Systems by M. Hassan, S. Mohan, R. Bobba and R. Pellizzoni. Published in the IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium (RTSS), December 2016. Best Student Paper Award. The DragonBeam Framework: Hardware-Protected Security Modules for In-Place Intrusion Detection by M. K. Yoon, M. Christodorescu, L. Sha and S. Mohan. Published in the ACM International Systems and Storage Conference (SYSTOR), June 2016. TaskShuffler: A Schedule Randomization Protocol for Obfuscation Against Timing Infer- ence Attacks in Real-Time Systems by M. K. Yoon, S. Mohan, C. Y. Chen and L. Sha. Published in the IEEE conference Real-Time and Embedded Systems and Applications Symposium (RTAS), April 2016. Inter-Flow Consistency: A Novel SDN Update Abstraction for Supporting Inter-Flow Constraints by W. Liu, R. Bobba, S. Mohan and R. Campbell. Accepted for publication in the IEEE Conference on Communications and Network Security (CNS) to be held in Florence, Italy in September 2013. Memory Heat Map: Anomaly Detection in Real-Time Systems using Memory Behavior by M. K. Yoon, S. Mohan, J. Choi, J. E. Kim and L. Sha published in the Design Automation Conference (DAC), June 2015. A Generalized Model for Preventing Information Leakage in Hard Real-Time Systems by R. Pellizzoni, N. Paryab, M. K. Yoon, S. Bak, S. Mohan and R. Bobba published in theIEEE Conference on Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium (RTAS) in Seattle 2015. Real-Time Systems Security Through Scheduler Constraints byS. Mohan, M. K. Yoon, R. Pellizzoni and R. Bobbapublished in the 26thEUROMICRO Conference on Real-Time Systems (ECRTS), Madrid, Spain,2014. On-chip control flow integrity check for real time embedded systems byF. A. T. Abad, J. V. D. Woude, Y. Lu, S. Bak, M. Caccamo, L. Sha, R. Mancuso and S. Mohanpublished in the 1stIEEE International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems, Networks, and Applications (CPSNA), 2013. SecureCore: A Multicore Architecture for Intrusion Detection in Real-Time Control Systems by M. K. Yoon, S. Mohan, J. Choi, J. E. Kim and L. Sha submitted to published in the IEEE Conference on Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium (RTAS), Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in April 2013. S3A: Secure System Simplex Architecture for Safety-Critical Supervisory Control Systems by S. Mohan, S. Bak, E. Betti, H. Yun, L. Sha and M. Caccamo submitted to published in the 2nd ACM Conference on High Confidence Networked Systems (HiCoNS), Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in April 2013. [ pdf ] Exploring the Design Space of IMA System Architectures by R. Bradford, S. Mohan, M. Nam, R. Pellizzoni, L. Sha and S. Fliginger published in the 29th Digital Avionics Systems Conference (DASC), 2010. [ pdf ] Time-Based Intrusion Detection in Cyber-Physical Systems by C. Zimmer, B. Bhatt, F. Mueller and S. Mohan accepted for publication published in ACM/IEEE ICCPS 2010. [ pdf ] A Framework for the Safe Interoperability of Medical Devices in the Presence of Connection Failures by C. Kim, M. Sun, S. Mohan, H. Yun, A. Nayeem and L. Sha accepted for publication published in ACM/IEEE ICCPS 2010. [ pdf ] Rapid Early-Phase Virtual Integration by S. Mohan, M. Nam, R. Pellizzoni, L. Sha, R. Bradford and S. Fliginger submitted to published in the IEEE Real-time Systems Symposium (RTSS), 2009. [ pdf ] CheckerCore: Enhancing an FPGA Soft Core to Capture Worst-Case Execution Times by J. Ouyang, R. Raghavendra, S. Mohan, Y. Xie and F. Mueller accepted for publication published in CASES 2009. [ pdf ] Push-Assisted Migration of Real-Time Tasks in Multi-Core Processors by A. Sarkar, F. Mueller, H. Ramaprasad and S. Mohan in LCTES 2009. [ pdf ] Merging State and Preserving Timing Anomalies in Pipelines of High-End Processors by S. Mohan and F. Mueller inthe IEEE Real-time Systems Symposium (RTSS)2008. [ pdf ] Hybrid Timing Analysis of Modern Processor Pipeline via Hardware/Software Interactions by S. Mohan and F. Mueller inthe IEEE Conference on Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium (RTAS),2008. [ pdf ] Temporal Analysis for Adapting Concurrent Applications to Embedded Systems by S. Mohan and J. Helander inEUROMICRO Conference on Real-Time Systems (ECRTS),2008. [ pdf ] ParaScale: Exploiting Parametric Timing Analysis for Real-Time Schedulers and Dynamic Voltage Scaling by S. Mohan, F. Mueller, W, Hawkins, M. Root, C. Healy and D. Whalley in the IEEE Real-time Systems Symposium (RTSS)2005. [ pdf ] Timing Analysis for Sensor Network Nodes of the Atmega Processor Family by S. Mohan, F. Mueller, D. Whalley and C. Healy in thethe IEEE Conference on Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium (RTAS),2005. Workshop Publications New Directions for Container Debloating by V. Rastogi, C. Niddodi, S. Jha and S. Mo- han. Published in the ACM CCS Workshop on Forming an Ecosystem around Software Transformation (FEAST) (RTN) held in Dallas, November 2017. Dependable End-to-End Delay Constraints for Real-Time Systems using SDN by R. Kumar, M. Hasan, S. Padhy, K. Evchenko, L. Piramanayagam, S. Mohan and R. Bobba. Published in the ECRTS Workshop on Real-Time Networks (RTN) held in Dubrovnik, Croatia, June 2017. Securing Electric Vehicles in the Power Grid by C. Niddodi,, S. Mohan and T. Yardley. Published in the Work in Progress session of EUROMICRO Conference on Real-Time Systems (ECRTS) held in Dubrovnik, Croatia, June 2017. ScheduLeak: An Algorithm for Reconstructing Task Schedules in Fixed-Priority Hard Real-Time Systems by C.Y. Chen, A. Ghassami, S. Mohan, N. Kiyavash, R. Bobba and R. Pellizzoni. Published in the IEEE RTSS Workshop on Security and Dependability of Critical Embedded Real-Time Systems (CERTS) held in Porto, Portugal, Nov. 2016. ReSecure: A Restart-Based Security Protocol for Tightly Actuated Hard Real-Time Systems by F. Abdi, C.Y. Chen, M. Hasan, S. Mohan, D. Agarwal and M. Caccamo. Published in the IEEE RTSS Workshop on Security and Dependability of Critical Embedded Real-Time Systems (CERTS) held in Porto, Portugal, Nov. 2016. A Server Model to Integrate Security Tasks into Fixed-Priority Real-Time System s by M. Hasan, S. Mohan R. Bobba and R. Pellizzoni. Published in the IEEE RTSS Workshop on Security and Dependability of Critical Embedded Real-Time Systems (CERTS) held in Porto, Portugal, Nov. 2016. Inter-Flow Consistency: Novel SDN Update Abstractions for Supporting Inter-Flow Constraints by W. Liu, R. Bobba, S. Mohan and R. Campbell published in the NDSS Workshop on Security of Emerging Network Technologies (SENT) in San Diego in February 2015. Anytime Algorithms for Multicore Processors by A. Saba, S. Mohan and R. Mangharam accepted for publication in the Work in Progress session at ECRTS to be held in Brussels, Belgium in July 2010. Time-Based Intrusion Detection in Cyber-Physical Systems by C. Zimmer, B. Bhatt, F. Mueller and S. Mohan published in the Work in Progress session at the IEEE RTSS Conference held in Washington, DC in Dec. 2009. Addressing Safety and Security Contradictions in Cyber-Physical Systems by M. Sun, S. Mohan, L. Sha and C. Gunter submitted to the Fourth Workshop on Embedded Systems Security (WESS) to be held as part of ESWeek in Oct. 2009. Integrating Security into Real-Time Systems using Temporal Constraints by C. Zimmer, F. Mueller and S. Mohan submitted to the Fourth Workshop on Embedded Systems Security (WESS) to be held as part of ESWeek in Oct. 2009. Addressing Safety and Security Contradictions in Cyber-Physical Systems by M. Sun, S. Mohan, L. Sha and C. Gunter. Position Paper. Published/presented at the First Workshop on Future Directions in Cyber-Physical Systems held in July 2009. This is a by-invitation only workshop. Time-Based Intrusion Detection in Cyber-Physical Systems by C. Zimmer, B. Bhatt, F. Mueller and S. Mohan published in the Work in Progress session at the EUROMICRO Conference on Real-Time Systems (ECRTS) held in Dublin, Ireland in July 2009. Building Robust Automotive Systems through Separation of Concerns by S. Mohan and J. Helander. Position paper at the National Workshop on High-Confidence Automotive Cyber-Physical Systems, April 2008. This is a by-invitation only workshop. Worst-Case Execution Time Analysis of Security Policies for Deeply Embedded Real-Time Systems by S. Mohan at the PhD student forum in IEEE RTSS 2007. Published in ACM SIGBED Review Vol 5, Number 1 -- Special issue on the RTSS Forum on Deeply Embedded Real-Time Computing, January 2008. CheckerMode: A Hybrid Scheme for Timing Analysis of Modern Processor Pipelines Involving Hardware/Software Interactions by S. Mohan and F. Mueller in IEEE RTAS WIP 2007. Technical Reports Learning Execution Contexts from System Call Distributions for Intrusion Detection in Embedded Systems by M. K. Yoon, S. Mohan, J. Choi, M. Christodorescu and L. Sha. A rXiv Computing Research Repository (CoRR), 2015 (arXiv:1501.05963 [cs.CR]). S3A: Secure System Simplex Architecture for Safety-Critical Supervisory Control Systems by S. Mohan, S. Bak, E. Betti, H. Yun, L. Sha and M. Caccamo; ArXiv Computing Research Repository (CoRR) , 2012 ( arXiv:1202.5722 [cs.CR]). Preserving Timing Anomalies in Pipelines of High-End Processors by S. Mohan and F. Mueller; North Carolina State University Dept. of Computer Science Technical Report , ab Temporal Analysis for Adapting Concurrent Applications to Embedded Systems by S. Mohan and J. Helander; Microsoft Research Technical Report (MSR-TR-2008-37) 2008. Embedded Systems Research at DemoFest 2007 by O. Almeida, A. Forin, P. Garcia, J. Helander, N. Khantal, H. Lu, K. Meier, S. Mohan, H. Nielsen, R. Pittman, R. Serg, B. Sukhwani, M. Veanes, B. Zorn, S. Berry, C. Boyce, D. Chaszar, B. Culrich, M. Khisin, G. Knezeck, W. Linam-Church, S. Liu, M. Stewart and D. Toney; Microsoft Research Technical Report (MSR-TR-2007-94) 2007. Ph.D. Thesis Exploiting Hardware/Software Interactions for Analyzing Embedded Systems by S. Mohan, Ph.D. thesis, North Carolina State University, August 2008 . Note: In Computer Science, publications at top-ranking conferences are considered more important and prestigious than journals (of course they have their place as well). Here is an official memo from the Computing Research Association (CRA) stating that fact. Some systems/real-time conference rankings: 1 , 2 , 3 . Of course, these not authoritative and not in any order, and they seem to have a slight bias towards US-based conferences. . Behavior-Based Intrusion Detection Cyber-Physical Systems (CPSs) have distinct cyber and physical components that must work cohesivelywith each other to ensure correct operation. Examples include automobiles, power plants,avionics systems, home automation systems, etc. Traditionally such systems were isolated from externalaccesses and used proprietary components and protocols. Hence, they were considered tobe invulnerable to cyber attacks. The recent Stuxnet worm and other similar attacks have shownthat even such systems are not immune to compromise. A failure to protect these systems fromharm could result in significant harm to humans, the environment or even critical infrastructure. On the other hand, many cyber-physical systems have real-time constraints i.e., they must functioncorrectly within predetermined time scales. Systems that have such real-time properties are predictable by design . Designers work really hard to ensure that the execution behavior of such systems(e.g., execution time, memory usage, control flow, system properties, etc.) are analyzed andcontrolled to a high level of detail so as to guarantee predictable behavior. This project aims to use this very predictability of real-time CPS to detect intrusions as soon asthey occur and take evasive actions . This will be then combined with the development of an architecturalframework to: detect intrusions and guarantee that the underlying physical systemdoes not come to harm . The development of analysis techniques and intrusion-detection architectures will inherently make such systems more secure and hence, safer. It will bring us one stepcloser to understanding how to integrate two seemingly diverse yet important fields, CPS andsecurity, while gaining a better understanding of both areas. The ideas that will be developed as part of this project have the potential for significant impact ona diverse set of domains. Apart from the research community, government agencies and industrycould also gain significantly from results produced as part of this research. It will make manycritical aspects of modern day life such as aircraft, vehicles, critical infrastructures (power grid,water treatment plants, etc.) much safer. People Sibin Mohan [UIUC] Lui Sha[UIUC] Man-Ki Yoon[UIUC] Fardin Abdi[UIUC] Rakesh Bobba[UIUC] Mihai Christodorescu [Qualcomm Research] Rajarshi Gupta [Qualcomm Research] Results We have analyzed the following behavioral properties and used them to detect intrusions in real-time, embedded and cyber-physical systems: Execution Time Control Flow System Call Behavior Memory Traffic These analysis methods have been developed in conjunction with an architectural solution that we call, SecureCore . The main idea is that one of the cores in a multicore processor will be able to observe the behavior of critical tasks executing on other cores. Publications S3A: Secure System Simplex Architecture for Safety-Critical Supervisory Control Systems by S. Mohan, S. Bak, E. Betti, H. Yun, L. Sha and M. Caccamopublished in the 2nd ACM Conference on High Confidence Networked Systems (HiCoNS), Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in April 2013. SecureCore: A Multicore Architecture for Intrusion Detection in Real-Time Control Systems by M. K. Yoon, L. Sha and S. Mohanpublished in the IEEE Conference on Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium (RTAS), Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in April 2013. On-chip control flow integrity check for real time embedded systems by F. A. T. Abad, J. V. D. Woude, Y. Lu, S. Bak, M. Caccamo, L. Sha, R. Mancuso and S. Mohan in the 1st IEEE International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems, Networks, and Applications (CPSNA) , 2013. Intrusion detection for real-time embedded applications using system call frequency distribution by M.-K. Yoon, S. Mohan, J. Choi and L. Sha submitted to the IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium , 2014. Memory heat map: Learning memory behavior for anomaly detection in real-time systems byM.-K. Yoon, S. Mohan, J. Choi and L. Sha submitted to the IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium 2014 . Sponsors Other Links Qualcomm Innovation Fellowship (QInF) by Qualcomm Research | official announcement. UIUC Computer Science Department accouncement of Qualcomm Innovation Fellowship (QInF 2013 -- 2014). . Integrating Security in Real-Time Embedded Systems Embedded real-time systems (RTS) are used to monitor and control physical systems and processes in varied domains. Formerly, most such systems remained isolated from the rest of the world, and applications were partitioned in isolated processing nodes that offered protection from cyber-attacks. Increasingly, these systems are now being connected together, and there does not exist a comprehensive framework for integrating security into embedded RTS; retrofitting existing systems is usually ineffective. Traditionally, real-time systems are modeled as sets of periodic tasks that are then scheduled on a collection of resources. Any security-related mechanisms must work within the imposed restrictions of real-time systems; on the other hand, those properties of RTS make it easier to model systems and perform rigorous analysis of developed solutions. This project is aimed at developing (1) an understanding of threat landscapes; (2) security mechanisms that are unique to this domain; and (3) theories, policies, models, algorithms, and mechanisms that bring the domains of security and real-time systems together. The work is answering questions such as: when solutions are developed that integrate security with real-time systems theory, can we classify solutions based on how effectively they meet real-time requirements as well as improve system security? Can this be used to aid in development of robust systems that can monitor themselves and detect events? People Sibin Mohan [UIUC] Rakesh Bobba [UIUC] Rodolfo Pellizzoni [University of Waterloo] Marco Caccamo [UIUC] Man-Ki Yoon [UIUC] Stanley Bak [Air Force Research Labs, Rome, NY] Neda Paryab [University of Waterloo] Chien-Ying (CY) Chen [UIUC] Monowar Hasan [UIUC] Fardin Abdi Taghi Abad [UIUC] Results I. In initial work, we have been able to cast certain security properties (viz. information leakage) as constraints for fixed-priority real-time schedulers. Using traditional schedulability and response-time analysis we have been able to show the effects of such methods. Designers of real-time systems can now decide on how much security (i.e. protection against information leakage) they can tolerate in comparison to the real-time requirements. Publications Real-Time Systems Security Through Scheduler Constraints by S. Mohan, M. K. Yoon, R. Pellizzoni and R. Bobba published in the 26th EUROMICRO Conference on Real-Time Systems (ECRTS), Madrid, Spain, 2014. A generalized model for preventing information leakage in hard real-time systems by Rodolfo Pellizzoni,Neda Paryab,Man-Ki Yoon,Stanley Bak,Sibin Mohan andRakesh Bobba published in RTAS2015:271-282 . Integrating security constraints into fixed priority real-time schedulers by Sibin Mohan, Man-Ki Yoon , Rodolfo Pellizzoni , Rakesh B. Bobba published in Real-Time Systems52(5) :644-674(2016). II. Sponsors Other Links Official ITI Announcement . . Professional Activities. I am a member of ACM , IEEE , the IEEE Computer Society and ACM Special Interest group on Embedded Systems (SIGBED). Funding Agency Review Panels National Science Foundation [NSF], USA. Research Grants Council [RGC], Hong Kong. Program Committees 1st International Workshop on Security and Privacy for the Internet-of-Things (IoTSec), co-chair , Orlando, USA. 2018. 23rd IEEE Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium (RTAS), Porto,Protugal. 2018. IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium (RTSS), Publication Chair , Paris, France. 2017. Workshop on Security and Dependability of Critical Embedded Real-Time Systems (CERTS), co-chair , Paris, France. 2017. 26th International Conference on Computer Communication and Networks (ICCCN), Cognitive, Cellular and Mobile Networks (CCN) Track Chair , Vancouver, Canada. 2017. IEEE Consumer Communications and Networking Conference (CCNC)), Las Vegas, NV. 2017. IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium (RTSS), CPS Track Chair & Publication Chair , Porto, Portugal. 2016. IEEE International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems, Networks, and Applications (CP- SNA), Nagoya, Japan. 2016. Workshop on Science of Security for Software Defined Networks (SoSSDN), Chicago, USA. Co-chair . 2016. IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium (RTSS), Publication Chair , San Antonio, TX. 2015. 21st IEEE International Conference on Embedded and Real-Time Computing Systems and Applications (RTCSA) , Hong Kong. 2015. 12th International Conference on Embedded Software and Systems (ICESS), New York, NY. 2015. EUROMICRO Conference on Real-time Systems (ECRTS) Work-in-progress, Lund, Sweden. 2015. 20th IEEE Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium (RTAS), Seattle, WA. 2015. Analytical Virtual Composition of Real-Time Systems, Rome, Italy. Co-chair of workshop. 20th IEEE International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Systems (ICPADS), Hsinchu, Taiwan. 2014. Work in Progress (WIP) Session of the IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium (RTSS), Rome, Italy. 2014. 35th IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium (RTSS) Demo Session. RTSS@Work, Rome, Italy. 2014. 19th IEEE Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium (RTAS), Berlin, Germany. 2014. 19th IEEE International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Systems (ICPADS), Seoul, Korea. 2013. 18th IEEE Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium (RTAS), Philadelphia, PA. 2013. 33rd IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium (RTSS) Demo Session. RTSS@Work, San Juan, Puerto Rico. 2012. 17th IEEE International Conference on Embedded and Real-Time Computing Systems and Applications (RTCSA 2012) , Seoul, Korea. 2012. 2nd Workshop on Cyber-Physical Systems, Networks, and Applications (CPSNA), Seoul, South Korea. 2012. 18th IEEE Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium (RTAS) Work in Progress session, Beijing, China. 2012. Analytical Virtual Composition of Real-Time Systems, Vienna, Austria. 2011. IEEE Conference on Embedded and Real-Time Computing Systems and Applications (RTCSA), Japan. 2011. First Workshop on Cyber-Physical Systems, Networks, and Applications (CPSNA), Japan. 2011. EUROMICRO Workshop on Worst-Case Execution Time (WCET) Analysis, Portugal. 2011. International Workshop on Safety and Security in Cyber-Physical Systems (SSCPS), Korea. 2011. 17th IEEE Conference Real-Time and Embedded Applications Symposium (RTAS), Chicago. 2011. Workshop on Energy Aware Design and Analysis of Cyber Physical Systems (WEA-CPS), Chicago. 2011. First International Workshop on Cyber-Physical Networking Systems (CPNS), Shanghai, China. 2011. Analytical Virtual Composition of Real-Time Systems, San Diego, CA. Co-chair of workshop. 2010. Work in Progress (WIP) Session of the IEEE Conference Real-Time andEmbedded Applications Symposium (RTAS), Stockholm, Sweden. 2010. International Workshop on Cyber-Physical Systems (WCPS), Montreal, Canada. 2009. International Workshop on Wireless-Grade Medical Devices (WiMD), New Orleans. 2009. IEEE Conference Real-Time and Embedded Applications Symposium (RTAS), San Francisco. 2009. Symposium for Graduate Research in Computer Science, Raleigh North Carolina. 2008. Paper Reviews Apart from the above PCs, I have also participated in reviewing papers for the following Journals/Conferences/Workshops: IEEE Journal, Transactions on Computers. ACM Journal, Transactions in Embedded Computing Systems. Springer Journal, Real-Time Systems. Leibniz Transactions on Embedded Systems. IEEE Journal, Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems. IEEE Journal, Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing. ACM Journal Experimental Algorithmics. ACM SIGPLAN/SIGBED conference, Languages, Compilers and Tools for Embedded Systems. IEEE International Conference on Embedded and Real-Time Computing Systems/Applications. IEEE Systems Journal. International Conference on Compilers, Architecture and Synthesis for Embedded Systems. IEEE Embedded Systems Letters. Software: Practice and Experience Journal. Elsevier Journal of Systems Architecture. Euromicro Conference on Real-Time Systems. Journal on Embedded Systems. IEEE Journal, Transactions on Industrial Informatics. IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium. ACM SIGPLAN International Symposium on Memory Management. International Conference on Parallel Processing. International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Systems. Annual Conference on Worst-Case Execution Time. European Network of Excellence on High-Performance Embedded Architecture and Compilation. ACM SIGBED Embedded Software Conference. Workshop on Compilers and Tools for Constrained Embedded Systems. . Real-Time Systems A real-time system is is defined as a system that has both : Logical, and Temporal correctness. The temporal correctness is defined in the form of a constraint, usually termed as deadline . The usefulness of results produced by the system drops significantly, at times, to zero, on the passing of this constraint. Real-time systems are broadly classified into the following categories : Hard : The usefulness of results on the passing of the contraint falls sharply and missing such constraints could lead to catastrophic effects to the system, then user, the environment, or all of them. Eg. : ABS system in cars, safety control of nuclear reactors, etc. Soft : The usefulness of results falls gradually, on the passing of the constraint, and a few missed deadlines can be tolerated by the system, without catastrophic results. Eg. : MPEG decoding of streaming video. A real-time system is defined as a collection of tasks , each of which is defined as : {phi, p, e, d} , where : phi : phase p : period e : worst-case execution time of the task - the guaranteed upper bound on execution time of the task, for all possible inputs. d : temporal constraint, deadline. Real-time systems theory reasons about the schedulability of task sets i.e. , offline schedulability tests, which can determine if all deadlines of a set of tasks can be met. Task parameters have to be known beforehand, i.e ., parameters such as period of each task, the worst-case execution time (WCET), and so on. Periods of tasks are determined from the operating environment, such as temporal constraints on sensors, actuators and other parts of the system. Determining the WCET for tasks is a non-trivial effort due to software complexity, non-determinism of inputs and hardware complexity with unpredictable execution behavior. . Publication: Rapid Early-Phase Virtual Integration Authors : Sibin Mohan , Min-Young Nam , Rodolfo Pellizzoni , Lui Sha , Richard Bradford and Shana Fliginger. Abstract : In complex hard real-time systems with tight constraints on system resources, small changes in one component of a system can cause a cascade of adverse effects on other parts of the system. We address the inherent complexity of making architectural decisions by raising the level of abstraction at which the analysis is performed. Our analysis approach gives the system architect a rigorous method for quickly determining which system architectures should be pursued, and it allows the architect to track and manage the cascading effects of subsystem/component changes in a comprehensive, quantitative manner. The end product is a virtual architecture analysis that systematically incorporates the inherent coupling among interacting system components that share limited system resources. Here is a link to the full paper and slides to the talk at RTSS. This was presented at the IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium ( RTSS ) , held in Washington DC in December 2009 . . Publication : CheckerCore: Enhancing an FPGA Soft Core to Capture Worst-Case Execution Times Authors : Jin Ouyang , Raghuveer Raghavendra, Sibin Mohan , Tao Zhang , Yuan Xie and Frank Mueller . Abstract : Embedded processors have become increasingly complex, resulting in variable execution behavior and reduced timing predictability. On such processors, safe timing specifications expressed as bounds on the worst-case execution time (WCET) are generally too loose due to conservative assumptions about complex architectural features, timing anomalies and programmatic complexities. Hence, exploiting the latest architectures may not be an option for embedded systems with hard real-time constraints where deadline misses cannot be tolerated. This work addresses these shortcomings by contributing CheckerCore. CheckerCore is a mode-enhanced SPARC v8 soft core processor synthesized on an FPGA. During regular execution the core adheres to its original specifications. But when operating in a special time-checking configuration, CheckerCore executes programs irrespective of inputs and steers execution along selected control flow paths. Such execution allows systematic derivation of worst-case execution time (WCET) bounds. This paper presents the design and implementation of CheckerCore and illustrates its use in deriving accurate WCET bounds for a set of embedded benchmarks. Overall, CheckerCore proposes a realistic processor core enhancement that encapsulate processor details without revealing them to users while supporting safe bounding of WCETs. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first contribution of a WCET-enhancing microarchitectural feature besides full processor encapsulations. Here is a link to the full paper and slides to the talk at CASES. This was presented at the International Conference on Compilers, Architecture and Synthesis for Embedded Systems ( CASES ), held in Grenoble, France in 2009. . Publication : Push-Assisted Migration of Real-Time Tasks in Multi-Core Processors Authors : Abhik Sarkar, Frank Mueller , Harini Ramaprasad and Sibin Mohan . Abstract : Multicores are becoming ubiquitous, not only in general-purpose but also embedded computing. This trend is a reflection of contemporary embedded applications posing steadily increasing demands in processing power. On such platforms, prediction of timing behavior to ensure that deadlines of real-time tasks can be met is becoming increasingly difficult. While real-time multicore scheduling approaches help to assure deadlines based on firm theoretical properties, their reliance on task migration poses a significant challenge to timing predictability in practice. Task migration actually (a) reduces timing predictability for contemporary multicores due to cache warm-up overheads while (b) increasing traffic on the network-on-chip (NoC) interconnect. This paper puts forth a fundamentally new approach to increase the timing predictability of multicore architectures aimed at task migration in embedded environments. A task migration between two cores imposes cache warm-up overheads on the migration target, which can lead to missed deadlines for tight real-time schedules.We propose novel micro-architectural support to migrate cache lines. Our scheme shows dramatically increased predictability in the presence of cross-core migration. Experimental results for schedules demonstrate that our scheme enables real-time tasks to meet their deadlines in the presence of task migration. Our results illustrate that increases in execution time due to migration is reduced by our scheme to levels that may prevent deadline misses of real-time tasks that would otherwise occur. Our mechanism imposes an overhead at a fraction of the tasks execution time, yet this overhead can be steered to fill idle slots in the schedule, i.e., it does not contribute to the execution time of the migrated task. Overall, our novel migration scheme provides a unique mechanism capable of significantly increasing timing predictability in the wake of task migration. Here is a link to the full paper and slides to the talk at RTSS. This was presented at the ACM conference Languages, Compilers and Tools for Embedded Systems ( LCTES ), held in Dublin, Ireland in 2009. . Ph.D. Thesis : Exploiting Hardware/Software Interactions for Analyzing Embedded Systems Author : Sibin Mohan Abstract : Em bedded systems are often subject to real-time timing constraints. Such systems require determinism to ensure that task deadlines are met. The knowledge of the bounds on worst-case execution times (WCET) of tasks is a critical piece of information required to achieve this objective. One limiting factor in designing real-time systems is the class of processors that may be used. Contemporary processors with their advanced architectural features, such as out-of-order execution, branch prediction, speculation, and prefetching, cannot be statically analyzed to obtain WCETs for tasks as they introduce non-determinism into task execution, which can only be resolved at run-time. Such micro-processors are tuned to reduce average-case execution times at the expense of predictability. Hence, they do not find use in hard real-time systems. On the other hand, static timing analysis derives bounds on WCETs but requires that bounds on loop iterations be known statically, i.e., at compile time. This limits the class of applications that may be analyzed by static timing analysis and, hence, used in a real-time system. Finally, many embedded systems have communication and/or synchronization constructs and need to function on a wide spectrum of hardware devices ranging from small micro-controllers to modern multi-core architectures. Hence, any single analysis technique (be it static or dynamic) will not suffice in gauging the true nature of such systems. This thesis contributes novel techniques that use combinations of analysis methods and constant interactions between them to tackle complexities in modern embedded systems. To be more specific, this thesis (I) introduces of a new paradigm that proposes minor enhancements to modern processor architectures, which, on interaction with software modules, is able to obtain tight, accurate timing analysis results for modern processors; (II) it shows how the constraint concerning statically bound loops may be relaxed and applied to make dynamic decisions at run-time to achieve power savings; (III) it represents the temporal behavior of distributed real-time applications as colored graphs coupled with graph reductions/transformations that attempt to capture inherent meaning in the application. To the best of my knowledge, these methods that utilize interactions between different sources of information to analyze modern embedded systems are a first of their kind. Here is a link to the dissertation and the official Electronic Thesis and Dissertation link at the NC State University library. This was submitted and accepted in August 2008 . . Publication : Merging State and Preserving Timing Anomalies in Pipelines of High-End Processors Authors : Sibin Mohan and Frank Mueller . Abstract : Many embedded systems are subject to temporal constraints that require advance guarantees on meeting deadlines. Such systems rely on static analysis to safely bound worst-case execution (WCET) bounds of tasks. Designers of these systems are forced to avoid state-of-the-art processors due to their inherent architectural complexity (such as out-of-order instruction scheduling) that results in non-determinism. This work addresses this problem by providing novel pipeline analysis techniques for characterizing the worst-case behavior of real-time systems on modern processor architectures. We introduce methods to capture (snapshot) pipeline state and to subsequently perform a merge of previously captured snapshots. We prove that our pipeline analysis correctly preserves worst-case timing behavior on OOO processor pipelines. We further specifically show that anomalous pipeline effects, effectively dilating timing, are preserved by our method. To the best of our knowledge, this method of pipeline analysis and interactions between hardware/software for obtaining WCET bounds on OOO processors is the first of its kind. Here is a link to the full paper and slides to the talk at RTSS. This was presented at the IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium ( RTSS ) , held in Barcelona in December 2008 . Also available as a Technical Report from NC State University . . Publication : Hybrid Timing Analysis of Modern Processor Pipelines via Hardware/Software Interactions Authors : Sibin Mohan and Frank Mueller . Abstract : Embedded systems are often subject to constraints that require determinism to ensure that task deadlines are met. Such systems are referred to as real-time systems. Schedulability analysis provides a firm basis to ensure that tasks meet their deadlines for which knowledge of worst-case execution time (WCET) bounds is a critical piece of information. Static timing analysis techniques are used to derive these WCET bounds. A limiting factor for designing real-time systems is the class of processors that can be used. Typically, modern, complex processor pipelines cannot be used in real-time systems design. Contemporary processors with their advanced architectural features, such as out-of-order execution, branch prediction, speculation, prefetching, etc., cannot be statically analyzed to obtain tight WCET bounds for tasks. The main reason is that these features introduce non-determinism to task execution that surfaces in full only at runtime. In this paper, we introduce a new paradigm to perform timing analysis of tasks for real-time systems running on modern processor architectures. We propose minor enhancements to the processor architecture to enable this process. These features, on interaction with software modules, are able to obtain tight, accurate timing analysis results for modern processors. We also briefly present analysis techniques that, combined with our timing analysis methods, reduce the complexity of worst-case estimations for loops. To the best of our knowledge, this method of constant interactions between hardware and software to calculate WCET bounds for out-of-order processors is the first of its kind. Here is a link to the full paper and slides to the talk at RTAS 2008. This was published in the IEEE Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium ( RTAS ), April, 2008. . Publication : Temporal Analysis for Adapting Concurrent Applications to Embedded Systems Authors : Sibin Mohan and Johannes Helander . Abstract : Embedded services and applications that interact with the real world often, over time, need to run on different kinds of hardware which range in capability from low-cost microcontrollers with very limited memory to powerful multicore processors. It is quite difficult to write one program that would work reliably on such a wide range of devices. This is especially true when the application must be temporally predictable and robust which should usually be the case since the physical world works in real-time. Thus, any application interacting with such a system, distributed or not, must also work in real-time. In this paper we introduce a representation of the temporal behavior of an application as a colored graph that captures the timing of temporally continuous sections of execution, called bars, and the dependencies between the bars, creating a partial order. We then introduce a method of extracting the graph from existing applications using a combination of static, dynamic and other analyses. Once the graph has been created we employ a number of graph transformations, introduced here, that extract ``meaning'' from the graph. The knowledge gained can be utilized for scheduling and by the programmer for adjusting the level of parallelism suitable to the specific hardware, for identifying hot spots, false parallelism, or even candidates for additional concurrency. Graphs can be serialized to a partiture that can be used as input for offline, online, or even distributed real-time scheduling. Finally we present results from a prototype analyzer that was used on a complete TCP/IP stack in addition to smaller test applications. The most surprising outcome is that increasing the expression of concurrency can reduce the level of parallelism required, saving memory on deeply embedded platforms. Here is a link to the full paper and slides to the talk at RTAS 2008. This was published in the 20th EUROMICRO Conference on Real-Time Systems ( ECRTS ), July, 2008. Also available as a Technical Report from Microsoft Research . . Publication : Worst-Case Execution Time Analysis of Security Policies for Deeply Embedded Real-Time Systems Authors : Sibin Mohan . Abstract : Deeply embedded systems often have unique constraints because of their small size and vital roles in critical infrastructure. Problems include limitations on code size, limited access to the actual hardware, {\em etc.} These problems become more critical in real-time systems where security policies must not only work within the above limitations but also ensure that task deadlines are not missed. A critical piece of information for security policies in real-time systems is the worst-case execution time (WCET) of the security code. This paper addresses some of the issues faced in the implementation of such security policies and also the process of determining WCETs for them. analysis safely bounds worst-case execution times to determine if tasks can meet their deadlines in hard real-time systems. However, conventional timing analysis requires that the upper bound of loops be known statically, which limits its applicability. Parametric timing analysis methods remove this constraint by providing the WCET as a formula parameterized on loop bounds. Here is a link to the full paper , published in the ACM SIGBED Review, Vol. 5, Number 1 - Special issue on the RTSS Forum on Deeply Embedded Real-Time Computing. This was presented at the PhD student forum of the IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium ( RTSS ), held in December 2007 . . Publication : Parametric Timing Analysis and its Application to DVS Authors : Sibin Mohan , Frank Mueller , William Hawkins , Michael Root , Christopher Healy , David Whalley and Emilio Vivancos . Abstract : Embedded Systems with real-time constraints depend on a-priori knowledge of worst-case execution times (WCETs) to determine if tasks meet deadlines. Static timing analysis derives bounds on WCETs but requires statically known loop bounds. This work removes the constraints on known loop bounds through parametric analysis expressing WCETs as functions. Tighter WCETs are dynamically discovered to exploit slack by dynamic voltage scaling (DVS) saving 60%-80% energy over DVS-oblivious techniques and showing savings close to more costly dynamic-priority DVS algorithms. Overall, parametric analysis expands the class of real-time applications to programs with loop-invariant dynamic loop bounds while retaining tight WCET bounds. Here is a link to the full paper . This has been accepted for publication in the ACM journal Transactions in Embedded Computing Systems ( TECS ) in 2008. . Publication : CheckerMode : A hybrid scheme for timing analysis of modern processor pipelines involving hardware/software interactions Authors : Sibin Mohan , Frank Mueller . Abstract : Real-time systems often require determinism to ensure that task deadlines are met. Schedulability analysis provides a firm basis to ensure that tasks deadlines are met, and for this, knowledge of bounds on worst-case execution times (WCET) of tasks is a critical piece of information. Static timing analysis derives these bounds on WCETs. A limiting factor for real-time systems design is the class of processors that may be used. Contemporary processors with their advanced architectural features, such as out-of-order execution, branch prediction, speculation, and prefetching, cannot be statically analyzed to obtain WCETs for tasks because these features introduce non-determinism to task execution, which can only be resolved at run-time. We introduce a new paradigm which proposes minor enhancements to modern processor architectures, which, on interaction with software modules, is able to obtain tight, accurate timing analysis results for modern processors. To the best of our knowledge, this method of hardware/software interactions to calculate WCET results for out-of-order processors is the first of its kind. Here is link to the full paper and slides to the talk at RTAS WIP 2007. This was presented at the work-in-progress section of the IEEE Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium ( RTA S), April, 2007. . Publication : ParaScale: Exploiting Parametric Timing Analysis for Real-Time Schedulers and Dynamic Voltage Scaling Authors : Sibin Mohan , Frank Mueller , William Hawkins , Michael Root , Christopher Healy and David Whalley . Abstract : Static timing analysis safely bounds worst-case execution times to determine if tasks can meet their deadlines in hard real-time systems. However, conventional timing analysis requires that the upper bound of loops be known statically, which limits its applicability. Parametric timing analysis methods remove this constraint by providing the WCET as a formula parameterized on loop bounds. This paper contributes a novel technique to allow parametric timing analysis to interact with dynamic real-time schedulers. By dynamically detecting actual loop bounds, a lower WCET bound can be calculated, on-the-fly, for the remaining execution of a task. We analyze thebenefits from parametric analysis in terms of dynamically discovered slack in a schedule. We then assess the potential for dynamic power conservation by exploiting parametric loop bounds for ParaScale, our intra-task dynamic voltage scaling (DVS) approach. Our results demonstrate that the parametric approach to timing analysis provides significant savings, close to 66 \%, in terms of slack as well as power. We further show that using this approach combined with online intra-task DVS to exploit parametric execution times results in much lower power consumption. Hence, even in the absence of dynamic scheduling, significant savings in power can be obtained, e.g. ,in the case of cyclic executives. Here is a link to the full paper and the slides to the talk at RTSS 2005. This was published in the IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium ( RTSS ), December, 2005. . Publication : Timing Analysis for Sensor Network Nodes of the Atmega Processor Family. Authors : Sibin Mohan , Frank Mueller , David Whalley and Christopher Healy . Abstract : Low-end embedded architectures, such as sensor nodes, have become popular in diverse fields, many of which impose real-time constraints. Currently, the Atmel Atmega processor family used by Berkeley Motes lacks support for deriving safe bounds on the WCET, which is a prerequisite for performing real-time schedulability analysis. Our work fills this gap by providing an analytical method to obtain WCET bounds for this processor architecture. Our first contribution is to analyze both C and NesC code, the latter of which is unprecedented. The second contribution is to model control hazards and variable-cycle instructions, both handled more efficiently by our approach than by previous ones and results in up to 77% improvement in bounding the WCET. The results demonstrate that our timing analysis framework is able to tightly and safely estimate the WCET of the benchmarks while simulator results are shown to not always provide safe WCET bounds. While motivated by the Atmel Atmega series of processors, results are equally applicable to low-end embedded processors. This work is, to the best of our knowledge, the first set of experiments where timing results are contrasted from execution on an actual processor, from a cycle-accurate simulator and from a static timing analyzer. Furthermore, making our timing analysis toolset available to the Atmel Atmega processor family is a significant contribution towards addressing a documented need for tool support for sensor node architectures commonly used in networked systems of embedded computers, or so-called EmNets. Here is a link to the full paper , and the slides to the talk at RTAS 2005. This was published in the IEEE Real-Time and Embedded Systems and Application Symposium ( RTAS ), March 7-10, 2005. . Contact Info sibin@illinois.edu +1.217.300.3037 Address Dept. of Computer Science University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 458, Coordinated Science Laboratory 1308 W. Main St. Urbana, IL - 61801. Publications Materials 1. Curriculum Vitae 2. Research Statement 3. Teaching Statement 4. Diversity Statement 5. References Links My Google Scholar Profile My DBLP Page My Calendar UIUC Computer Science UIUC NCSU Computer Science NC State University Google Citeseer CS Bibliographies Sponsors Copyright Sibin Mohan, 2002 - 2018 Any material on this website may be reused only with the permission of the author. Copyrights for papers, publications, etc., reside with respective organizations, i.e., ACM, IEEE, etc. 
