 Search Academic Calendar Campus Services Faculties & Schools Library Maps Quicklinks Student Service Centre UBC Directory UBC Mobile The University of British Columbia UBC - A Place of Mind The University of British Columbia UBC Search UBC Search Sensorimotor Systems Lab Home Dinesh K. Pai Research Biomechanics Graphics Haptics Mechanics Neuroscience Robotics Scientific Computing Sound All Projects Publications People Courses CPSC 535P Digital Humans CPSC 314 Computer Graphics CPSC 530P Sensorimotor Computation News Contact Home Dinesh K. Pai Dinesh K. Pai Dinesh K. Pai is a Professor and Tier 1 Canada Research Chair in the Department of Computer Science at the University of British Columbia, where he directs the Sensorimotor Systems Laboratory . He is also a member of UBCs Institute for Computing, Information and Cognitive Systems (ICICS), the Institute of Applied Mathematics, the Graduate Program in Neuroscience, the ICORD International Collaboration on Repair Discoveries, and the Brain Research Centre. He received his Ph.D. from Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, and his B.Tech. degree from the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras.Pai has received several awards, includingUBCs 2012 Killam Research Prize. His current research is focused on sensorimotor computation in computer graphics, robotics, and neurobiology. His research led to the UBC spinoff company Vital Mechanics which isbuilding advanced computational models of the human body, including the skin and soft tissues. Pais interdisciplinary activities at UBC have been supported by several significant research grants, including NSERC Discovery and Idea-to-Innovation grants, a Major Thematic Grant from the Peter Wall Institute for Advanced Studies , and a Program Grant from the Human Frontier Science Program for studying modularity in the central nervous system. He also leads the Human Sensorimotor Systems theme within ICICS . The labs state-of-the-art facilties include a Vicon MX motion capture system, LMI HDI Advance R4 body scanner, several eye trackers, a suite of skin measurement instruments, EMG systems, haptic interfaces, force sensors, and robots. Prof. Dinesh K. Pai Department of Computer Science 2366 Main Mall Vancouver , BC Canada V6T 1Z4 Tel 604 822 8197 Back to top The University of British Columbia About UBC Contact UBC About the University News Events Careers Make a Gift Search UBC.ca UBC Campuses Vancouver Campus Okanagan Campus UBC Sites Robson Square Centre for Digital Media Faculty of Medicine Across BC Asia Pacific Regional Office Emergency Procedures | Terms of Use | Copyright | Accessibility 
