 Alan Wagner University of British Columbia About Me Research Publications Teaching-Administration Contact Me Download CV Copyright text here Alan Wagner I am an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of British Columbia, and a member of the Institute for Computational Intelligence and Cognitive Systems (ICICS). I have over 25 years experience in areas of high performance computing, networking, and parallel and distributed computing. My area of research is in parallel computing and High Performance Computing. My main interest is in message-passing systems and MPI, large-scale parallel programming and data-intensive computation for streaming and data analytics. Academic Positions 2001 1999 Visiting Professor Terabeam Corporation , Seattle Present 1997 Associate Professor Unversity of British Columbia , Department of Computer Science 1997 1987 Assistant Professor Unversity of British Columbia , Department of Computer Science Education Ph.D. 1987 Ph.D. in Computer Science University of Toronto M.Sc. 1983 M.Sc. in Computer Science University of Alberta B.Sc. 1977 B.Sc. (honors) in Mathematics Dalhousie University Honors, Awards and Grants 2014 Mitacs Elevate Postdoctoral Fellowship The fellowship, in partnership with Intel, was for Dr. H. Kamal to continue her work with FG-MPI. We released a new version of FG-MPI 3.0 at Supercomputing in November of 2015. This release was the target of Dr. Kamal's PostDoctoral work and was a concerted two year development effort. Dut to this support we were able to integrate fine-grain MPI into the 2015 major new version of the MPI standard, FG-MPI can be used by developers and users of the standard. ( FG-MPI ) 2008 NSERC: I2I Grant Real-time, market-wide analysis of financial instrument: MarketMiner is an online scalable analytics engine for data-mining and analysis of financial data. It is a component-based system that executes in parallel to compute intra-day correlations in close to real-time, and searches through these correlations for short-term patterns and divergences. As part of the I2I grant we experimentally investigated the validity of the analytics underlying MarketMiner, used the experimental results to refine the computational processes, and worked closely with potential clients to identify the analytics and tools best suited for commercialization. (with Holger Hoos, Camilo Rostoker) 2006 Cisco University Research Awards Compute and Data Intensive Processing using MPI over SCTP: Supported our research in using SCTP and MPI for cluster computing. This support allowed us to fully integrate our SCTP-based middleware into MPICH as part of its official release (not in the current version). (with B. Penoff and H. Kamal) 
