 Home Main navigation Search Jump to content Breadcrumb University of Zurich Department of Informatics Software Evolution and Architecture Lab People Thomas Fritz Professional Activities Publications Teaching Seitenfunktionen Druckansicht Schrift grsser/kleiner Service Navigation Home Contact Sitemap University of Zurich Department of Informatics - s.e.a.l Main navigation Department of Informatics s.e.a.l Subpages People Teaching Research Publications Events Jobs About us Awards Department of Informatics Harald C. Gall Thomas Fritz Professional Activities Publications Teaching Manuela Zger Sebastian Proksch Carol Alexandru Adelina Ciurumelea Giovanni Grano Christoph Laaber Andr Meyer Gerald Schermann Carmine Vassallo Thomas Fritz, Prof. Dr. Associate Professor of Human-Oriented Software Engineering University of Zurich Department of Informatics (ifi) Binzmhlestrasse 14 CH-8050 Zurich, Switzerland Email fritz@ifi.uzh.ch Tel +41 44 635 67 32 Fax +41 44 635 71 48 Office BIN 2.B.21 My research focuses on empirically studying software developers and enhancing their productivity and effectiveness. By better understanding what software developers need, what they experience, and how they operate on a daily basis, we will be able to provide better and more tailored support to developers as well as improve their productivity and the quality of the software they produce. In particular, I'm interested in: Biometric Sensing: exploring the potential of biometric (aka. psycho-physiological) sensors to measure the difficulty, emotions, and interruptibility developers experience while working, and using these measures to provide better support, such as, by intervening before a developer create a bug or the developer's productivity is impeded. Selected publications in this area are: "Using (Bio)Metrics to Predict Code Quality Online." ( Mller, Fritz. ICSE'16 ),"Interruptibility of Software Developers and its Prediction Using Psycho-Physiological Sensors." ( Zger and Fritz. CHI'15 ), and "Stuck and Frustrated or In Flow and Happy: Sensing Developers Emotions and Progress." ( Mller and Fritz. ICSE'14 ). Developer Productivity / Personal Analytics: understanding software developers' perceptions of productivity, providing a meaningful retrospection and fostering productive behavior in software developers. Selected publications in this area are: "Reducing Interruptions at Work: A Large-Scale Field Study of FlowLight" ( Zger, Corley, Meyer, Li, Fritz, Shepherd, Augustine, Francis, Kraft, Snipes, CHI'17 ), "The Work Life of Developers: Activities, Switches and Perceived Productivity." (Meyer, Barton, Murphy, Zimmermann, Fritz, to appear in TSE 2017 ), "Software Developers Perceptions of Productivity." ( Meyer, Fritz, Murphy, Zimmermann. FSE'14 ) and "Persuasive Technology in the Real World: A Study of Long-Term Use of Activity Sensing Devices for Fitness." ( Fritz, Huang, Murphy, Zimmermann. CHI'14 ). Information Needs: empirically studying developers information needs, and devising developer-centric models that provide easy access to the relevant project information. Selected publications in this area are: "Tracing Software Developers Eyes and Interactions for Change Tasks." ( Kevic, Walters, Shaffer, Sharif, Fritz, Shepherd. FSE'15 ), "The Making of Cloud Applications An Empirical Study on Software Development for the Cloud." ( Cito, Leitner, Fritz, Gall. FSE'15 ), and "Developers Code Context Models for Change Tasks." ( Fritz, Shepherd, Kevic, Snipes and Brunlich. FSE'14 ). My research is funded by two Swiss National Science Foundation Grants, the European Commission's FP7 ICT Call 10 program, three ABB Software Research Grants (2013, 2014, and 2015) and a Microsoft SEIF Award. I am part of the software evolution and architecture lab and get to work with great PhD and Master students, in particular with: Katja Kevic , Andr Meyer , Sebastian Mller and Manuela Zger . My professional activities include (amongst others): member at-large for the Technical Council of Software Engineering (2015-2017) organizing committee member for FSE 2016 , ICSE 2014 , CSMR/WCRE 2014 , ICSE 2013 , treasurer for the Swiss Group for Object-Oriented Systems and Environments CHOOSE since 2011, program committee member for ICSE 2016 and ICSE 2017, ICPC 2016 , ICSME 2016 , ICPC 2015 , ICSME 2015 , MSR 2015 , ICSE SEIP 2015 , PROMISE 2015, ICSE Demos 2015 , CSD Workshop at ICSE 2015 , and reviewer for CHI'16 , CHI'15 and several journals. I am teaching courses on Software Engineering , the Software Praktikum together with Harald Gall, and a seminar on advanced software engineering . I previously taught courses on the Human Aspects of Software Engineering in fall (taught HS'16, HS'15, HS'14, and HS'13), a seminar in advanced software engineering (FS'17, FS'16, FS'14 and FS'12), Software Engineering with Martin Glinz (HS'15, HS'14, HS'13, and HS'12) , the Software Praktikum together with Harald Gall (FS'15 and FS'14), and Software Quality with Martin Glinz (FS'12). Previously , I finished my PhD with Gail C. Murphy in the Software Practices Lab at the University of British Columbia in 2011. I received my Diplom degree from the Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich in 2005 and also worked in the OBASCO research group at the cole des Mines de Nantes . If you are a student interested in doing research in software engineering and in particular in the area I am interested in, let me know. I am happy to talk to you about possible options. Fusszeile top Home Contact Sitemap s.e.a.l. 6 Apr 2018 About this site Data Protection Statement 
