 Home Page for Kellogg Booth Photo of me on a good day Kellogg S. Booth Professor Emeritus, Department of Computer Science a.k.a. the Rev. Prof. Dr. Dr. Kellogg S. Booth BS (mathematics), Caltech (1968) MA (computer science), UC Berkeley (1970) DMph (metaphysics), Universal Life Church (1974) add to your shopping cart PhD (computer science), UC Berkeley (1975) CONTENTS Contact Information Biographical Information Teaching Activities Read this before contacting me about the CPSC 448 UBC/MDM Capstone course. Read this before contacting me about the SCIE 113 First Year Seminar in Science course. Research Activities Read this before contacting me about undergraduate internships Read this before contacting me about admission to a graduate program Read this before contacting me about postdoctoral positions Pick Hits FEATURED QUOTE A number of people have gotten mad at me for coining the term "cybercrud," which I define as "putting things over on people using computers." But as long as it goes on we'll need the word. At every corner of our society, people are issuing pronouncements and making other people do things and saying it's because of the computer. The function of cybercrud is thus to confuse, intimidate or pressure. We have all got to get wise to this if it is going to be curtailed. -- Ted Nelson in his must-read book Computer Lib (page 8). more favorite quotes... MAILING ADDRESS Department of Computer Science 201-2366 Main Mall The University of British Columbia Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4 CANADA UBC OFFICE Room X461, ICICS/CS Building 2366 Main Mall (directions) 604-822-3061 (reception) 604-822-5485 (fax) (former) GRAND OFFICE Centre for Digital Media 577/685 Great Northern Way ( directions ) 778-370-1001 (reception) HOME 1145 McLean Drive Vancouver, BC V5L 3N5 CANADA 604-872-3577 (voice) ELECTRONIC e-mail: ksbooth@cs.ubc.ca Web: http://www.cs.ubc.ca/~ksbooth (you are here now) Web: https://www.cs.ubc.ca/people/kellogg-booth ERDS NUMBER 2 (the same as my Knuth number) Contact me with a cash offer to co-author a paper with you if you desire an Erds number of 3. RSUM CV (pdf) | Google Scholar | ACM DL (free access to my ACM papers) | Pedigree (my oldest ancestor is Nathaniel Bowditch ) The cornerstone of UBC's faculty retention plan is its CV format. -- Dinesh Pai Now Then Way Back Official diploma attesting to my first doctoral degree, from the Universal Life Church Hitting the spot! -- photo taken Summer of 1948 near Aliso Creek in Laguna Beach, CA 69 years and counting -- photo taken Summer of 2015 at Seton Lake, BC Biographical Information Kellogg S. Booth is Professor Emeritus of Computer Science. He is the former Director (1990-2002) of MAGIC , the Media and Graphics Interdisciplinary Centre at the University of British Columbia, and the former Scientific Director (2009-2015) of GRAND , the Graphics, Animation and New Media NCE, a former Canada-wide network of centres of excellence in digital media. He has worked in the fields of computer graphics and human-computer interaction since 1968. Prior to UBC, he was a faculty member in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Waterloo (1977-1990), and before that a staff member at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (1968-1976). Research interests include human-computer interaction, user interface design, collaboration technology, visualization, computer graphics, and analysis of algorithms. He has been involved in a number of interdisciplinary research projects at UBC and elsewhere over the past five decades. Professor Emeritus of Computer Science at UBC Scientific Director for the Graphics, Animation and New Media (GRAND), a Network of Centres of Excellence from December 2009 through June 2015 Active participant in HCI@UBC Member of the Multimodal User Experience Lab (MUX) at UBC Member of the Imager Laboratory for Graphics, Visualization, & Human-Computer Interaction at UBC Member of ICICS , the Institute for Computing, Information & Cognitive Systems at UBC Founding Director of MAGIC , the Media and Graphics Interdisciplinary Centre at UBC (1990-2002) Fellow of the British Columbia Advanced Systems Institute (1992-2004) Distinguished member of ACM , the Association for Computer Machinery (Alternate biographical information is available here .) Teaching Activities I am retired, so I do not have regular undergraduate or graduate teaching dueis. I do still engage in the following non-course activities, but at a reduced level. Further information on research supervision is in the next section. I am a liaison for CPSC 448, the UBC/MDM Digital Media Capstone course (Jan-May 2017) This is a 6-credit directed studies course in which undergraduate students are embedded in project teams with master's student in the Master of Digital Media program at the Centre for Digital Media. Details are available via the link above. From time to time, I supervise Undergraduate internships , but only for specific projects. There are currently No internships available. I continue to engage in Undergraduate honours thesis supervision, graduate thesis and dissertation supervision, and postdoctoral supervision by arrangement. You can see a list of the graduate students I have supervised in the past and their thesis and dissertation titles . Please read about my research interests before enquiring about internships or supervision. UBC students interested in computer graphics, visualization, or human-computer interaction may wish to consider one or more of the following courses that are offered various terms. I am not teaching any of these courses. Contact individual instructors for additional information concerning the courses, including course syllabi, days and times, and course prerequistes. Graphics CPSC 314 Introduction to Computer Graphics CPSC 424 Geometric Modeling CPSC 514 Computer Graphics: Rendering CPSC 524 Computer Graphics: Modeling Visualization CPSC 533C Information Visualization HCI CPSC 344 Introduction to HCI Methods EECE 418 Human-Computer Interfaces in Engineering Design CPSC 444 User Interface Design CPSC 544 Human-Computer Interaction (offered with CPSC 344) EECE 518 Human Interface Technologies EPSE 592 Analysis of Variance in Educational Research Students interested in a master's degree with a focus on human-computer interaction should consider the HCI sub-specialization that is administered by MAGIC in collaboration with a number of departments at UBC. Research Activities Almost all of my research is in the field of Human-Computer Interaction (HCI). Current areas of research interest include Collaboration technology Educational technology Structured annotation techniques for co-authored documents Selected areas of computer graphics and virtual and augmented reality Normally, I expect all of my masters-level students to complete the HCI sub-specialization that is available as part of a master's degree in any one of the participating academic units (including Computer Science). Graduate students I supervise are active members in MUX meetings (more or less weekly) to discuss research in HCI and related areas. They also participate in HCI@UBC activities. A list of current topics that I might supervise and previous topics that I have supervised in the past will give a snapshot of the range of my interests. Supervision is always conditional on a mutually agreed upon research topic. Selected research initiatives in which I have been involve are the following: Much of my recent research has been related to GRAND (2010-2015), the former Graphics, Animation and New Media network of centres of excellence. GRAND promoted highly cross-disciplinary digital media reserach and knowledge mobilization across Canada. The IDEASS (2011-2015), is part of a multi-year collaboration looking at various aspects of the built environment that focuses on how digital media technology can enhance our ability to plan, construct, and manage the urban landscape. NECTAR (2004-2009) was a research network funded by NSERC that focused on collaborative technology. Much of my research over the past five years was centred on NECTAR projects and most of the graduate students I supervised were affiliated with NECTAR. I am still actively working on a number of projects related to collaboration technology, especially tools for supporting collaboration on large, wall-sized displays and tabletop displays. Students interested in research opportunities in this area should contact me. The EVHL Enhanced Virtual Hand Laboratory (1995-2003) was a multi-year interdisciplinary research project at Simon Fraser University that examined a number of aspects of augments and virtual reality, as well as hand-based interaction techniques. I still have on-going interest in applying the results of that research, and more recent work in the field, to analyze and extend current interaction techniques, especially for table top and wall-mounted displays for collaborative systems where augmented reality techniques are employed to integrate physical objects with virtual objects. A fairly complete list of my publications and summary of research activity is contained in my CV . There is also a list of some of my publications that are available (for free) in the ACM DL . Pick Hits These are some links that I have found interesting or fun, but some (such as the first three) have serious content. Disclaimer: Links go stale over time, so there is no guarantee that all of the links below still work. If you see any that are broken, please let me know and I will try to fix them. Stuff every computer scientist should read I. D. Hill (1972). Wouldn't it be nice if we could write computer programs in English -- or would it? Honeywell Computer Journal 6 (2):76-83. This is a marvelous paper, but it doesn't seem to be available on-line anywhwere. I think it was originally published in the Computer Journal and then re-printed in by Honeywell. Richard A. De Millo, Richard J. Lipton, and Alan J. Perlis (1979). Social processes and proofs of theorems and programs . Commun. ACM , 22 (5):271-280 (May). Roy Levin and David D. Redell (1983). How to write a systems paper . ACM SIGOPS Operating Systems Review , 17 (3):35-40 (July). Software bloat is real, and coming to a neighborhood near you. Normally I am not a big fan of claims made by the AI community, but this new anti-theft system looks like it might really work! (Link currently broken, perhaps because of embarrassment.) Stuff about digital media (graphics, visualization, HCI, etc.) If you don't think this teapot demo is funny, you are not old enough to appreciate the history of computer graphics. If you are sure whether you want to buy a new Sharp quad pixel display, you may want to just update your current monitor to full color by downloading the Squant plug-in instead. Digital media rights are an important concern for everyone. Human-computer interaction is designing pleasant experiences for users to enjoy. Frustrated using the Faculty Service Centre , the Student Service Centre , or WebCT ? There is a better way but it seems to be off the web now! Less serious stuff Do you ever get tired of those meaningless management-speak terms? Here is an Action Item comic strip (circa 1999) that has it all! For sure you want to beware of this dog ! The end of the world (rated "R") is nearer than you think now that the Sixties are definitely over, and we have further proof of this 10 years later . On the World Wide Web there are all kinds of situations in which an Error 404 can occur, such as this and this , but this is the best. Short on cash? You can easily generate your own Nigerian letter , use someone else's , or learn more about the field. Have you seen the winners in the Bush in 30 seconds contest? Pick a card , any card! (Thanks to Ron Rensink for showing me this.) This is the best T-shirt I've seen so far. Here's the real truth behind all of that bizarre spam e-mail you get with the weird characters inserted into normal words and seemingly meaningless literary text embedded in what appear to be advertisements. Although many people thought that Dan Savage's favorite anti-shrimp website was just a joke, recent events in the Gulf of Mexico have proven this to be hardly a laughing matter. There are powerful Demotivators (R) you will enjoy including some new topical T-shirts related to the recent Gulf of Mexico crisis. When all else fails, call the Internet Help Desk for a good time. Lest we forget how blessed we are to live in Canada, think about how simple our food security problem is compared to the rest of North America. Really serious stuff The Oxford comma and the apostrophe are two things you need to beware of. Check out the Guidelines related to academic writing on my web page for students who are interested in working with me. Favorite Quotes This paper is reasonably well written, and you would think the authors would know how to spell "Fitts' law", given that they used this paradigm for evaluating their work. The term is spelt " Fitts's Law " several times in the paper. -- comment by R4 (expert) in a review of a paper submitted to UIST 2015 (see previous link about the apostrophe ) I have always wished for my computer to be as easy to use as my telephone. My wish has come true because I can no longer figure out how to use my telephone. -- Bjarne Stroustrup Education is what, when, and why to do things. Training is how to do it. In science, if you know what you are doing, you should not be doing it. In engineering, if you do not know what you are doing, you should not be doing it. -- Richard Hamming If your experiment needs statistics , you ought to have done a better experiment. -- Lord Rutherford Any problem in computing can be solved by adding another level of indirection. -- David Wheeler, according to Roger Needham, according to Butler Lampson et al. There are only two hard things in Computer Science: cache invalidation, naming things, and off-by-one errors. -- Leon Bambrick, according to Tim Bray The mind is not a vessel to be filled, but a fire to be kindled. -- Plutarch Political satire became obsolete when Henry Kissinger was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. -- Tom Lehrer ( more and more ) On my income tax 1040 it says 'Check this box if you are blind.' I wanted to put a check mark about three inches away. -- Tom Lehrer Age and guile beat youth, innocence, and a bad haircut. -- P. J. O'Rourke The Democrats are the party that says government will make you smarter, taller, richer, and remove the crabgrass on your lawn. The Republicans are the party that says government doesn't work and then they get elected and prove it. -- P. J. O'Rourke Anyway, no drug, not even alcohol, causes the fundamental ills of society. If we're looking for the source of our troubles, we shouldn't test people for drugs, we should test them for stupidity, ignorance, greed and love of power. -- P. J. O'Rourke Everybody knows how to raise children, except the people who have them. -- P. J. O'Rourke I'm not going to buy my kids an encyclopedia. Let them walk to school like I did. -- Lawrence Peter Berra No one goes there anymore because it's too crowded. -- Lawrence Peter Berra In theory, theory and practice are the same. In practice, they are not. -- Lawrence Peter Berra Instead of getting married again, I'm going to find a woman I don't like and just give her a house. -- Rod Stewart Surely if God had meant us to do yoga, he would have put our heads behind our knees. -- Rod Stewart Do not compute the totality of your poultry population until all the manifestations of incubation have been entirely completed. -- William Jennings Bryan There is more stupidity than hydrogen in the universe, and it has a longer shelf life. -- Frank Zappa Never be afraid to try something new. Remember, amateurs built the ark. Professionals built the Titanic. -- unattributed You know in many countries like North Korea or Iran a citizen does not have access to information like this. -- Country Joe McDonald commenting on his secret FBI file that he obtained through a Freedom of Information Act request. Fifty years ago these photographs were part of a study for "The problem we all live with" that appeared in Look magazine, January 14, 1964 -- Norman Rockwell (1894-1978) Credits Source file: index.shtml Last modified: Wednesday, 23-Jan-2019 20:07:28 PST For more information: ksbooth@cs.ubc.ca Disclaimer: No animals were abused or mistreated during the production of this Web page. May contain traces of peanuts. Your mileage will vary. Taxes and shipping not included. Void where prohibited by law. Passports , driver's licenses, and birth certificates not accepted for voting; gun owner permits OK. 
