 Loris Fichera Research Teaching Contacts Welcome! I am an Assistant Professor of Robotics at WPI, where I direct the Cognitive Medical Technology and Robotics Lab . In the past I was a postdoc at Vanderbilt University . I did my PhD at the Italian Institute of Technology . See my full CV here Areas of research: Computer/robot-assisted surgery Continuum robots Artificial intelligence and machine learning Welcome! I am an Assistant Professor with the Robotics Engineering Program and the Department of Computer Science at WPI. In the past I was a postdoc at Vanderbilt University . I did my PhD at the Italian Institute of Technology . See my full CV here Areas of research: Computer/robot-assisted surgery Continuum robots Artificial intelligence and machine learning For more information, please see my research page. News Mar 9, 2018 - I have been invited to give a talk at the University of New Hampshire . The talk is entitled "Rise of the machines in the Operating Room: Using AI to build smarter, more dexterous surgical robots." Feb 19, 2018 - I have been awarded two seed grant proposals from WPI to develop new technologies for laser surgery! The two proposals were written in collaboration with Prof. Andrea Arnold (Dept. of Mathematical Sciences) and Prof. Cosme Furlong (Ctr. for Holographic Studies and Laser micro-mechaTronics). Aug 14, 2017 - I have started my new position at Worcester Polytechnic Institute, Worcester, MA. Recent Publications Fichera L, Dillon NP, Zhang D, Godage IS, Siebold MA, Hartley BI, Noble JH, Russell PT, Labadie RF, Webster RJ. Through the Eustachian Tube and Beyond: A New Miniature Robotic Endoscope to See Into the Middle Ear. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters. 2017 Jul;2(3):1488-94. Fichera L, Messina F, Pappalardo G, Santoro C. A Python framework for programming autonomous robots using a declarative approach. Science of Computer Programming. 2017 Jun 1;139:36-55. Kesler K, Dillon NP, Fichera L, Labadie RF. Human Kinematics of Cochlear Implant Surgery: An Investigation of Insertion Micro-Motions and Speed Limitations. OtolaryngologyHead and Neck Surgery. 2017 May 1:0194599817704391. Dillon NP, Fichera L, Kesler K, Zuniga MG, Mitchell JE, Webster RJ, Labadie RF. Pre-operative Screening and Manual Drilling Strategies to Reduce the Risk of Thermal Injury During Minimally Invasive Cochlear Implantation Surgery. Annals of Biomedical Engineering. 2017 May 18:1-2. Acemoglu A, Fichera L, Kepiro IE, Caldwell DG, Mattos LS. Laser Incision Depth Control in Robot-Assisted Soft Tissue Microsurgery. J Med Robot Res. 2017 Mar 27:1740006. See full list on Google Scholar 2016-2018 Loris Fichera. Handcrafted with Emacs , Bootstrap , Font Awesome . 
