 Main Page Projects Publications Teaching Resources Contact Graduate Researcher Positions I am actively recruiting for graduate research assistants to join my group. If you are interested in working with me, take a look at my projects and recent publications . Then, send me a note about what topics interested you the most. Brief Biography I am an Associate Professor in the Computer Science Department and the Cyber Security Program at the Worcester Polytechnic Institute . I serve as the Graduate Coordinator for the Computer Science department and as the director of WPI's Scholarship for Service Program , an NSF-funded cyber security scholarship program. Prior to joining WPI, I worked as a Cyber Security Research Scientist in the Cyber and Information Security Research Group at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory . I continue to collaborate with Oak Ridge as a Joint Faculty Appointee. I earned my B.S. in Computer Science from Ohio University in 2004 and my M.S. and Ph.D. in Computer Science from Indiana University in 2006 and 2009, respectively. My research interests are in networking, security, and systems. Teaching Activities In 2014, I was honored to receive the Romeo L. Moruzzi Young Faculty Award for Innovation in Undergraduate Education for my work in the undegraduate network security course. I am proud to teach at a university that recognizes and is committed to providing a high quality education. The course web pages and syllabi for my current and previous courses are available on my teaching web page . Research and Projects I am particularly interested in research and technologies that can have a practical impact. As an example, two of the projects I have led, Choreographer and USB-ARM, were among the 8 initial projects selected by the Department of Homeland Security 's Transition to Practice Program . According to the DHS, these projects represent "mature technologies that address an existing or imminent cyber security gap in public or private systems that impact national security." I am always looking for additional research efforts that can have high impact. My projects page describes my ongoing and recent research projects. I am happy to advise graduate students and undergraduate MQP projects that fit in the networking, security, or systems areas. I am an active member of the Applied Logic and Security (ALAS) research group, which is open to everyone. Current Graduate Students I recruit talented students interested in networking, security and systems. I have had the privilege of advising four graduate students: Zorigtbaatar Chuluundorj (PhD) Heric Flores-Huerta (MS; co-advised with Lane Harrison ) Yunsen Lei (MS) Yu Liu (PhD) Past Students The following students have previously worked with me and have since graduated along with their first position upon graduation: Nicholas Brown (MS), MITRE Corporation Anthony Chenard (MS), US Government Evan Frenn (MS), Veracode Inc. Douglas MacFarland (MS), US Government Mohamed Najd (MS), Citrix Systems Joshua Pritchett (MS), MITRE Corporation Fredric Silberberg (MS), Microsoft, Inc. Doran Smestad (MS), Carbon Black, Inc. Curtis Taylor (PhD), Oak Ridge National Laboratory Media Coverage I have been featured as a quoted source for several media outlets, including Bloomberg BNA, Boston's CBS affiliate (WBZ), Boston's NPR affiliate (WBUR), Indianapolis's NBC affiliate (WTHR), the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, and the Washington Post. WPI's media relations team maintains an updated list of my recent media coverage . I am happy to speak to members of the media on technology topics related to computer security, particularly in the enterprise or residential space. Professional Service and Outreach I currently serve as the Graduate Coordinator for the Computer Science Department at WPI. If you have questions about admission to our graduate program, please feel free to contact me. I am the author of the InstructAssist system that is gaining adoption at WPI as an alternative for the Blackboard course management system. I have previously served as the coach for the WPI Cyber Defense Competition team, an extra-curricular activity to help students learn more about cyber security issues. The team competed at the 2012 and 2013 Northeast Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition (NECCDC) events. In 2012, WPI placed 9th. In 2013, WPI placed third. In 2014, WPI again placed third. A team from WPI participated in the 2013 MIT/LL Capture the Flag . Out of 23 teams, WPI placed 4th. For five years, I served as the faculty advisor for the WPI Cyber Security Club, a student group that provides demonstrations, activities, and other events to help students learn both about security defense and offense. Students interested in joining the club should complete the ethical hacking agreement form . Once the form is completed, the club officers will be automatically notified of the new membership request and will add the requestor. Cyber Security Program Computer Science Department Worcester Polytechnic Institute 
