 Home Research Lab Publications Teaching CV Erin T. Solovey, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Computer Science Worcester Polytechnic Institute esolovey@wpi.edu Office Hours Google Scholar profile Follow me on Twitter WPI Research opportunities: I am currently recruiting motivated Ph.D., Masters and undergraduate students interested in Human-Computer Interaction research. Contact me if interested. Read more... Erin T. Solovey, Ph.D. Dr. Solovey's main research area is human-computer interaction, specifically emerging interaction modes and techniques, such as brain-computer interfaces, physiological & wearable computing, affective computing and reality-based interaction. Her work uses machine learning approaches to build adaptive user interfaces that support the users changing cognitive state and context. Her work has applications in areas such as health, driving, aviation, privacy, STEM education, gaming, accessibility, complex decision making, as well as human interaction with autonomous systems and vehicles. Solovey is committed to improving STEM education and broadening participation in computing. Dr. Solovey has received several awards including the NSF/CRA Computing Innovation Fellowship and three CHI Best Paper Award Honorable Mentions, and her work has been covered in MIT Technology Review, Slashdot, Engadget and others. She was a postdoctoral fellow in the Humans and Automation Lab (HAL) at MIT , working with Missy Cummings . She received her bachelors degree in computer science from Harvard University , and her M.S. and Ph.D. in computer science from Tufts University , working in the Human-Computer Interaction Research Group with Robert Jacob . She also has conducted research at MIT Lincoln Laboratory and in the Computational User Experiences group at Microsoft Research with Desney Tan and Dan Morris . Previously, she was a software engineer at Oracle , and also has experience at several startups. NEWS & UPDATES January 31, 2019: Our lab was highlighted on Worcester's Channel 3 News January 30, 2019: I'll be giving a talk at noon in FL Lower Perrault on Enhancing Human-Computer Interaction with Real-time Brain Input January, 29 2019: Some WPI News: A New Kind of Thinking Cap: WPI Researchers Are Using Brain Imaging to Improve Personalized Learning Environments January, 2019: Our paper "Evaluating Rule-based Programming and Reinforcement Learning for Personalising an Intelligent System" (with Ruixue Liu, Advait Sarkar, and Sebastian Tschiatschek) was accepted to the Explainable Smart Systems Workshop at IUI 2019. January, 2019: WPI Spring term begins. Teaching CS 546 Human-Computer Interaction (grad course) October, 2018: WPI is hiring in computer science, neuroscience, data science, robotics engineering, etc! More info here. Spread the word! October, 2018: ICMI Conference in Boulder, CO. Looking forward to workshop on Modeling Cognitive Processes from Multimodal Data (MCPMD) September, 2018: Out for surgery. Back soon! September, 2018: Our paper "Integrating Non-Invasive Neuroimaging and Computer Log Data to Improve Understanding of Cognitive Processes" was accepted to the ICMI workshop on Modeling Cognitive Processes from Multimodal Data (MCPMD) September, 2018: News about our NSF award: NSF funds new integrative approaches to cognitive science, neuroscience August, 2018: NSF Award with Erin Walker (ASU/Pitt) and Kate Arrington (Lehigh) NCS-FO: Integrating Non-Invasive Neuroimaging and Educational Data Mining to Improve Understanding of Robust Learning Processes" August, 2018: Microsoft Technical Leadership Advisory Board (TLAB) on Brain-Computer Interfaces Meeting in Redmond, WA August, 2018: Start new position in Computer Science Department at WPI August, 2018: NSF-funded REThink Research Symposium showcases research conducted over the summer by Philadelphia area high school and community college teachers. July, 2018: Neuroergonomics Conference at Drexel in Philadelphia. Leah presents our paper "Towards Neuroadaptive Personal Learning Environments: Using fNIRS to Detect Changes in Attentional State" and Reza presents our paper "Assessing human reaction to a virtual agents facial feedback in a simple Q&A setting" June, 2018: Kickoff of the NSF-funded Research Experience for Teachers Site for Machine Learning to Enhance Human-Centered Computing. Check out Kyle's and Damian's websites about their projects in the Advanced Interaction Research Lab over the summer. May, 2018: Two abstracts accepted to Neuroergonomics Conference : "Towards Neuroadaptive Personal Learning Environments: Using fNIRS to Detect Changes in Attentional State" with Leah Friedman, Erin Walker, Ruixue Liu and Aria Kim and "Assessing human reaction to a virtual agents facial feedback in a simple Q&A setting" with Reza Moradinezhad April, 2018: I'm co-organizing a workshop at ICMI on Modeling Cognitive Processes from Multimodal Data with Felix Putze, Jutta Hild, Enkelejda Kasneci, Akane Sano, and Tanja Schultz. Deadline: July 30. April, 2018: Our paper Reflecting on the Impact of HCI Frameworks with Audrey Girouard, Robert Jacob, Orit Shaer and Michael Poor will be presented at the CHI 2018 workshop on Rethinking Interaction . April, 2018: Spring term begins. I'm teaching CS530 Developing User Interfaces (graduate course) MORE NEWS... window.dataLayer = window.dataLayer || []; function gtag(){dataLayer.push(arguments);} gtag('js', new Date()); gtag('config', 'UA-125825304-1'); 
