 Valeria Bertacco research teaching Bertacco lab press software Professor Electrical Engineering & Computer Science BBB4645 - Computer Engineering Lab Computer Science and Engineering University of Michigan 2260 Hayward Avenue Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2121 tel:734 615.4047 fax:734 763.4617 Assistant: Magda Cavillo BBB4808 magdaec@umich.edu 734936.8875 Recent publications "MTraceCheck: Validating Non-Deterministic Behavior of Memory Consistency Models in Post-Silicon Validation" Doowon Lee and Valeria Bertacco International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA), Toronto, CA, June 2017 PDF File "Regaining Lost Cycles with HotCalls: A New Fast Interface for SGX Secure Enclaves" Ofir Wiesse, Todd Austin and Valeria Bertacco International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA), Toronto, CA, June 2017 PDF File "AGARSoC: Automated Test and Coverage-Model Generation for Verification of " Biruk Mammo, Doowon Lee, Harrison Davis, Yijun Hou and Valeria Bertacco Asia-South Pacific Design Automation Conference (ASP-DAC), Yokohama City, Japan, January 2017 PDF File "Resource Conscious Diagnosis and Reconfiguration for NoC Permanent Faults" Ritesh Parikh and Valeria Bertacco IEEE Transactions on Computers (TC), Volume 65-7, July 2016 PDF File Research interests I am interested in creating novel solutions to enable the sustainable development of silicon systems, by making them more powerful, more reliable and significantly cheaper to design and manufacture. Specifically, I work on the design of novel, distributed and specialized architectures to boost the execution of big-data applications, I design algorithmic solutions to boost the correctness and reliability of complex silicon architectures at extremely low additional time and cost. Finally, I am working on novel design flows and assembly techniques, including chiplet-based design, to lower the cost of developing novel silicon designs, so that many more engineering teams can dedicate their creativity to the development of new hardware systems. Biography Valeria Bertacco is Arthur F. Thurnau Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Associate Dean for Physical Sciences and Engineering in the Rackham Graduate School at the University of Michigan. She is also an Adjunct Professor of Computer Engineering at the Addis Ababa Institute of Technology. Her research interests are in the area of computer design, with emphasis on specialized architecture solutions and design viability, in particular reliability, validation and hardware-security assurance. She joined the University of Michigan in 2003, after working with the Advanced Technology Group of Synopsys, which she joined via the acquisition of Systems Science Inc. Valeria is the Director of the ADA (Applications Driving Architectures) Research Center, whose goal is to reignite computing systems design and innovation for the 2030s decade, through specialized heterogeneity, domain-specific language abstractions and new silicon devices that show benefit to the application. The Center engages 20 faculty members and 95 students from 8 academic institutions in the United States. In her service to the community, she has been a member of the Executive Committee of the Design Automation Conference and served in the role of Technical Program Chair. The conference is the top forum in hardware and embedded systems design, attracting over 7,000 attendees yearly. She has also served as Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Computer Aided Design. She received her M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University in 1998 and 2003; and a Computer Engineering degree ("Dottore in Ingegneria") summa cum laude from the University of Padova, Italy in 1995. Valeria is the recipient of the IEEE CEDA Early Career Award, NSF CAREER award, the Air Force Office of Scientific Research's Young Investigator award and the IBM Faculty Award. From the University of Michigan she received the Vulcans Education Excellence Award, the Herbert Kopf Service Excellence Award, the Sarah Goddard Power Award for contribution to the betterment of women and the Rackham Faculty Recognition Award. Valeria is an ACM Distinguished Scientist and an IEEE Fellow. Current time in Michigan: Monday, 18-Feb-2019 11:14:44 EST 
