Howard Blair Associate Professor (Retired) Electrical Engineering & Computer Science 4-189 CST 315.443.3565 [email&#160;protected] Personal Website &#9656; Degree(s): 1980 PhD Computer Science, Syracuse University 1976 MS Mathematics, Syracuse University 1974 BS Mathematics, Syracuse University Research Interests: Logic in computer science Quantum information and computation Computational topology Dynamical systems Current Research: Quantum information systems engender unique problems for algorithm design as well as state verification. Furthermore, quantum mechanics is an observer-participatory theory; any measurement of the complex will ordinarily disturb its state. Current techniques for state and process verification require repeated measurements forcing one to devise new stratagems that allow for global state estimation and verification through the use of a minimal set of carefully tailored state manipulations and measurements. My research focuses on cutting-edge mathematical methodologies for the design, verification, and validation of quantum algorithms conforming to the state manipulation requirements of quantum computing. These mathematical methodologies involve mathematical logic and category theory as well as general and algebraic topology. In addition I am investigating the limitation on quantum state evolution of quantum systems with spatially well-separated components that must satisfy the requirements of special relativity regarding information transfer. I am also applying algebraic topology to improve validation methodologies for legacy and adapted software with a particular focus on flight control software. Courses Taught: Quantum computing Chaos theory and dynamical systems Logic and discrete mathematics Cryptography Select Publications: McDonald, Jonathan, Paul Alsing, Howard Blair. A geometric view of quantum cellular automata, Proceedings of Quantum Information and Computation X, SPIE 2012. Lee, Jooyoung, Yue Duan, Jae C. Oh, Wenliang Du, Howard Blair, Lusha Wang, Xing Jin. Social Network Based Reputation Computation and Document Classification. Journal of Universal Computer Science. Blair, H.A., Irwin, R.J. Quantum cellular automata without quiescent states. PostConference Proceedings of the SPIE Conference on Quantum Information and Computation, IX . (Post-conference revised version appeared July, 2011) Blair, H.A., Foster, K.W., Saranak, J. Reverse engineering cellular decisions for hybrid reconfigurable network modeling. SPIE Conference on Independent Component Analyses, Wavelets, Neural Networks, Biosystems, and Nanoengineering, IX . April 27  29, 2011. (Post-conference revised version appeared July, 2011) Blair, H.A., V.W. Marek, J.B. Remmel. Set-based Answer Set Programming. Annals of Mathematics and Articial Intelligence 52:81105, 2008. Apt, K.R., H.A. Blair, A. Walker, Towards a Theory of Declarative Knowledge in Foundations of Deductive Databases and Logic Programming, Jack Minker, ed. Morgan-Kaufmann, Los Altos, CA. 1988. 
