Shiu-Kai Chin Professor Electrical Engineering & Computer Science 4-293 CST 315.443.3776 [email&#160;protected] Degree: Ph. D. Syracuse University Lab/Center Affiliation(s): Center for Information Systems Assurance and Trust Institute for National Security and Counter Terrorism Research Interests: Computer security Systems assurance Formal verification Current Research: Shiu-Kai Chins research uses mathematical logic for the design and verification of trustworthy computer systems. Examples of computer systems that must be trustworthy are command and control systems, financial services, and distributed control of the power grid. His focus is on policy-based design and verification with an emphasis on using computer-assisted reasoning using higher-order logic theorem provers. Shiu-Kai supports the Air Forces research in trustworthy systems and hardware-based security. His work with JP Morgan Chase was used to reason about the security and integrity of credentials and entitlements in large-value commercial transactions. Courses Taught: Hardware design Access control Secure computer architecture Certified security by design Honors: Provost Faculty Fellow Laura J. and L. Douglas Meredith Professor for Teaching Excellence Chancellors Citation for Outstanding Contributions to the Universitys Academic Programs 2005 Syracuse University Outstanding Teacher of the Year Crouse Hinds Award for Excellence in Education Selected Publications: Shiu-Kai Chin, Teaching Undergraduates Certified Security by Design, 19th Colloquium for Information Systems Security Education, Las Vegas, NV, June 15-17, 2015. Glenn Benson, Shiu-Kai Chin, Sean Croston, Karthick Jayaraman, Susan Older, Banking on interoperability: Secure, interoperable credential management, Computer Networks, Volume 67, 2014, pp. 235-251. Shiu-Kai Chin, Erich Devendorf, Sarah Muccio, Susan Older, and James Royer, Formal Verification for Mission Assurance in Cyberspace: Education, Tools, and Results, Proceedings of the 16th Colloquium for Information Systems Security Education, Lake Buena Vista, FL, June 11-13, 2012, pp. 7582. Shiu-Kai Chin and Susan Older, Access Control, Security, and Trust: A Logical Approach, CRC Press, 2011. Shiu-Kai Chin, Logic Design for Access Control, Security, and Trust, (Invited Keynote) Engineering of Reconfigurable Systems and Algorithms (ERSA11) Las Vegas, 18-21 July 2011 Shiu-Kai Chin, Sarah Muccio, Susan Older, and Thomas N. J. Vestal, Policy-Based Design and Verification for Mission Assurance, in Igor Kotenko and Victor Skormin (Eds.), Computer Network Security, 5th International Conference on Mathematical Methods, Models and Architectures for Computer Network Security, MMM-ACNS 2010, St. Petersburg, Russia, September 2010. Glenn Benson, Shiu-Kai Chin, Sean Croston, Karthick Jayaraman, and Susan Older, Credentials Management for High-Value Transactions, in Igor Kotenko and Victor Skormin (Eds.), Computer Network Security, 5th International Conference on Mathematical Methods, Models and Architectures for Computer Network Security, MMM-ACNS 2010, St. Petersburg, Russia, September 2010. 
