 Ceren Budak Ceren Budak Assistant Professor University of Michigan School of Information Home Publications Projects Teaching Talks Service CV Mail: cbudak [at] umich.edu Twitter: @cerenbudak Office: 3336 NQ I am an Assistant Professor at the University of Michigan School of Information. Before that, I was a Postdoctoral Researcher at Microsoft Research New York. I received my PhD from the Computer Science Department at University of California, Santa Barbara in December 2012. I received my Bachelors degree from Computer Science Dept. @Bilkent University in Turkey in 2007. My research interests lie in the area of computational social science; a discipline at the intersection of computer science, statistics, and the social sciences. I am particularly interested in applying large scale data analysis techniques to study problems with social, political, and policy implications. Active Projects Below are a few active research projects I am interested in. Each is accompanied with a word cloud from one of my related papers. Because who doesn't like pretty figures? Social Movements & Media The high-level goal of this project is to understand social movements using social media data; A few questions we have looked at in the past and are working on right now are: What motivates people to participate in collective action? How do social movements change the participants that took part in them? How sticky is activism? What recruitment methods and networks work better in engaging the participants? Continue Reading Social Networks The power of online social networks lies in their ability to enable the diffusion of information, ideas, and innovations. This significance motivates our work that focuses on understanding the diffusion process, and using this understanding to build technological solutions to facilitate and guide such spread. Our efforts that resulted in advances in modeling diffusion, limiting the spread of misinformation and trend detection in social networks. Continue Reading News Media Production & Consumption News media are a key source of information for society. How is this source of information produced and how is it consumed? Are news outlets biased? Do readers prefer ideologically biased content? Continue Reading Charitable Giving How do people make charitable giving decisions? Do donors take the efficiency of organizations they contribute to? What is the value of the Web in reducing search frictions in the charity marketplace? And how can we use web browsing data to gain insights as to who/why cares about homelessness and poverty? Continue Reading Prospective Students Prospective PhD students must first be admitted to UMSI's PhD program before they can work with an individual advisor. If you are interested in working with me, please first apply to our program and then drop me an email. Undergraduate and Masters students who have already been admitted to the University of Michigan and are interested in working on computational social science problems are welcome to contact me. Include your interests, degree, major, and resume in your email. School of Information, University of Michigan 4322 North Quad, 105 S. State St. Office: NQ 3336 
