Garrett Ethan Katz Assistant Professor Electrical Engineering & Computer Science 3-125 CST [email&#160;protected] Degrees: B.A. Philosophy, Cornell University, 2007 M.A. Mathematics, City College of New York, 2011 Ph.D. Computer Science, University of Maryland, College Park, 2017 Research interests: Neural Computation Cognitive Robotics Dynamical Systems Current Research: My current research focuses on programmable neural networks: neural networks that can be programmed like a conventional computer to execute symbolic, cognitive-level tasks, but can then refine that procedural knowledge by learning from examples and experience. One application of this work is in robotic imitation learning: programming robots from a single human demonstration of a task that requires high-level planning and reasoning. A second application of this work is modeling the neural basis of cognition, and cognitive disorders, in humans. In other research I am developing new solution methods for fixed point location in recurrent neural networks and other dynamical systems, including gradient flows of optimization objective functions. This work applies broadly to solving non-linear systems of equations and non-convex optimization. I have also worked on methods for computational tomography of biological virus particles. Teaching Interests: My teaching interests include machine learning and artificial intelligence, especially neural computation and automated planning, as well as dynamical systems, robotics, and human-robot interaction. Honors: Best student paper award at the 9thInternational Conference on Artifical General Intelligence, 2016 Distinguished Graduate Student Teacher, University of Maryland, 2014 Recent Publications: Katz GE, Reggia JA (2017). Using Directional Fibers to Locate Fixed Points of Recurrent Neural Networks. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems. DOI 10.1109/TNNLS.2017.2733544 Katz GE, Huang DW, Hauge T, Gentili RJ, Reggia JA (2017). A Novel Parsimonious Cause-Effect Reasoning Algorithm for Robot Imitation and Plan Recognition. IEEE Transactions on Cognitive and Developmental Systems. IEEE. DOI 10.1109/TCDS.2017.2651643 
