Chilukuri K. Mohan Professor Electrical Engineering & Computer Science 4-283 CST 315.443.2322 [email&#160;protected] Personal Website &#9656; Degree(s): Ph. D., State Univ. of New York at Stony Brook B.Tech., Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur Lab/Center Affiliation(s) : Syracuse Evolutionary and Neural Systems Exploration (SENSE) Lab Smart Grid Lab Research Interests: Artificial intelligence Evolutionary algorithms Data mining Social networks Bioinformatics Current Research: Recent work has involved the development of algorithms for: the recognition of patterns in promoter regions of genome sequences, unsupervised detection of anomalies in data (including time series), and optimization problems in the design of multiband cognitive radio networks. Other current work includes the investigation of robustness properties of social networks, as well as the use of network models in understanding the dynamics of evolutionary algorithms. Teaching Interests: Smart grid Social networks Evolutionary algorithms Neural networks Honors: Distinguished Scholar Award, International Society of Applied Intelligence, July 2011. Selected Publications: Linkage Sensitive Particle Swarm Optimization (D. Devicharan and C.K. Mohan), in Handbook of Swarm Intelligence  Concepts, Principles, and Applications (eds. B.K. Panigrahi, Y. Shi, and B. Lim), pp. 119-132, 2011. Rank-Based Outlier Detection with (HuaMing Huang, Kishan Mehrotra Chilukuri K. Mohan), in Journal of Statistical Computation and Simulation, Oct. 2011. Distributed In-Network Path Planning for Sensor Network Navigation in Dynamic Hazardous Environments (D. Chen, C.K. Mohan, K.G. Mehrotra, and P.K. Varshney), in Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing 12(8): 739-754, 2012. SMAlign: Alignment of DNA Sequences with Gap Constraints (F. Alobaid, K. Mehrotra, C.K. Mohan, and R. Raina), in Proc. BICOB, Las Vegas, March 2012. Reference Set Metrics for Multi-Objective Algorithms (C.K. Mohan and K. Mehrotra), in Proc. SEMCCO, pp.723-730, Dec. 2011. 
