Jae C. Oh David G. Edelstein Professor for Broadening Participation, Department Chair EECS Electrical Engineering & Computer Science 4-177 CST 315.443.4740 [email&#160;protected] Personal Website &#9656; Degree(s): Ph.D in Computer Science, The University of Pittsburgh Lab/Center Affiliation(s): Distributed Multi-agent Systems Laboratory (Director) Research Interests: Applications of Artificial Intelligence to distributed systems, multi-agent systems, swarm robotics, big-data visualizations, and cyber-physical systems Game theory Social network analysis Current Research: I am interested in studying interaction dynamics among multiple entities in networked and non-networked environments, resource allocation and management in distributed environments, dialogical artificial intelligence, and studies on visual dialogues and visual art. Courses Taught: Operating systems Artificial intelligence Game theory Distributed systems Multi-agent systems Honors: Distinguished Scholar, International Society of Applied Intelligence, 2011. Selected Publications: Nathaniel Gemelli, Jeffrey Hudack, Steven Loscalzo and Jae Oh, Using Coalitions with Stochastic Search to solve Distributed Constraint Optimization Problems, in Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Agents and Artificial Intelligence. 2015 A Game Theoretic Framework for Community Detection, The 2012 IEEE/ACM International Conference in Social Networks Analysis and Mining, ASONAM 2012. Best Paper Award. with K. Mehrotra and P. McSweeny An Open Co-op Model for Global Enterprise Technology Education: Integrating the Internship and Course Work. SIGCSE 2012. With J. Saltz. Joo Lee and Jae C. Oh, A Node-Centric Reputation Computation Algorithm on Online Social Networks, in Lecture Notes in Social Networks: Application of Social Media and Social Network Analysis, Springer International Publishing, Eds:, Kazienko, Przemyslaw and Chawla, Nitesh, Pages 1-22. Jae C. Oh, Emergence of self-reflection through visual dialogues based on evolutionary algorithms, a description of Informatrix III from a computer science perspective, in the Art Catalogue of 14th International Festival of Intermedia Art, Maribor, Solvenia,October 13, 2008, English), ISBN 978-961-6154-19-2, an Art Catalogue Wonkyung Park and Jae C. Oh, \New Entropy Model for Extraction of Structural Information from XCS Population, Proceedings of the Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference 2009 (GECCO 2009), July, Montreal, Canada, ACM, Best paper award. 
