Gurdip Singh Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Programs Electrical Engineering & Computer Science 227E Link Hall [email&#160;protected] Personal Website &#9656; Degrees: Ph.D., Computer Science, State University of New York at Stony Brook M.S., Computer Science, State University of New York at Stony Brook B.Tech., Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, New Delhi Research Interests: My main research focus has been to develop techniques for designing correct and efficient distributed systems. My research interests include Distributed and Embedded Systems, Synchronization Synthesis, Network Protocols, Compositional Design and Analysis techniques, and Configurable Middleware systems. My research has been funded by federal agencies such as NSF, ARO, and DARPA and by industrial organizations such as Lockheed Martin and Cerner. I have been involved in developing software tools to design large-scale, distributed safety critical systems. I am working on developing methodologies and tools for building integrated sensor systems and analysis tools for automated optimization of distributed middleware. I work on the interface of theory and practice to apply research results to industrial-scale problems. &nbsp; Teaching Interests: My teaching interests are in the areas of Distributed Systems, Computer Networks, Protocol Engineering, Real-time Embedded Systems, Operating Systems, Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis. &nbsp; Honors: Best Paper Award, IEEE/ACM International Conference on Cyber, Physical and Social Computing, 2010 College of Engineering Frankenhoff Outstanding Research Excellence Award, 2007 Best Paper Award, IASTED International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Computing and Systems, 2003 Best NSF Showcase Award, ASEE Annual Conference, 2002 Department Award for Best Graduate Teacher, 1997 NSF CAREER Award, 1995 NSF Research Initiation Award, 1992 Best Dissertation Award, SUNY at Stony Brook, 1991 &nbsp; Publications: Anil Pahwa, Scott DeLoach, Sanjoy Das, Bala Natarajan, Xinming Ou, Dan Andresen, Noel Schulz and Gurdip Singh, Holonic Multi-Agent Control of Power Distribution Systems of the Future. CIGRE Grid of the Future Symposium. Kansas City, MO, 2012. Vishal Bhatia and Gurdip Singh, Reprogramming Heterogeneous Sensor Networks, International Conference on Advances in Computing, Control and Communications, June 2012. Johnson and Gurdip Singh, Data Gathering Protocols for Wireless Sensor Networks, International Conference on Computer, Communication and Information Sciences, and Engineering, June 2012. Sumeet Gujrati and Gurdip Singh, Mutual Exclusion Protocols for Cyber-Physical Systems, International Conference on Sensor Networks, Italy, Feb 2012. Huang Zhu and Gurdip Singh, Communication Protocol for a Vehicle Collision Warning System, IEEE/ACM International Conference on Cyber, Physical and Social Computing, December 2010. Winner of the Best Paper Award Walamitien Oyenan, Scott DeLoach, and Gurdip Singh, An Organizational Design for Adaptive Sensor Networks, Proceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Intelligent Agent Technology, Toronto Canada, September 2010. Habel Kurian, Abhishek Rakshit, and Gurdip Singh, Detecting Termination in Pervasive Sensor Networks, 9th IEEE International Symposium on Asynchronous Decentralized Systems, March 2009. Laksman Kaveti, Sandeep Pulluri, G. Singh, Event Ordering in Pervasive Sensor Networks, 5th IEEE International Workshop on Sensor Networks and Systems for Pervasive Computing, March 2009. Walamitien Oyenan, Scott DeLoach, &amp; Gurdip Singh, A Service-Oriented Approach for Integrating Multiagent System Designs, Proceedings of the Proceedings of 8th International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems (AAMAS), 
