Jee Choi: Title: Assistant Professor . Email: jeec@cs.uoregon.edu . Phone: 541-346-1387 . Office: 328 Deschutes Hall . Research Areas: High Performance Computing, Parallel and Scalable Algorithm Design, Performance Analysis Optimization, Tensor Decomposition & Data Mining . Education BS, 2000, Georgia Institute of Technology MS, 2004,Georgia Institute of Technology PhD, 2015, Georgia Institute of Technology Biography Jee Choi is an Assistant Professor in the Computer and Information Science Department at the University of Oregon. He received his PhD in Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology in 2015, under the advisement of Dr. Richard Vuduc . During his PhD, he worked on designing parallel and scalable algorithms for scientific applications, and modeling their performance and energy efficiency on the latest high-performance computing (HPC) systems. Some of his well-known work includes autotuning sparse matrix-vector (SpMV) on GPUs and the Energy Roofline Model . Between 2015 and 2018, he worked as a postdoctoral researcher and a research staff member at the IBM T. J. Watson Research Center. There, he was funded by the Department of Defense (DoD) on designing and optimizing tensor decomposition algorithms for Big Data Analytics. His current research focus - high-performance tensor decomposition - addresses the issue of mining and analyzing the evergrowing data created by our socieity (aka Big Data) for useful information. An estimated 2.5 Quintillion Bytes of data is generated every day , and much of it goes unused (aka Dark Data). Jee believes that only through the use of HPC systems will we be able to mine this treasure trove of data for useful information and use it to improve people's lives and better our society. Research Interests High Performance Computing Parallel and Scalable Algorithm Design Performance Analysis Optimization Tensor Decomposition & Data Mining Publications See his google scholar page for a list of his publications.. 
