Ramakrishnan Durairajan: Title: Assistant Professor . Email: ram@cs.uoregon.edu . Phone: 541-346-4425 . Office: 332 Deschutes . Research Areas: Computer Networking, Networked Systems . Website: Website . Education B.Tech. in Information Technology, College of Engineering - Guindy, 2010. M.S. in Computer Sciences, University of Wisconsin - Madison, 2014. Ph.D. in Computer Sciences, University of Wisconsin - Madison, 2017. Biography Ram Durairajan is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer and Information Science at the University of Oregon . With his colleague Prof. Reza Rejaie , Ram co-leads the Oregon Network Research Group ( ONRG ). Ram earned his Ph.D. and M.S. degrees in Computer Sciences from the University of Wisconsin - Madison and his B.Tech. in Information Technology from the College of Engineering, Guindy (CEG), Anna University . Ram's research has been recognized with Best Paper Awards from ACM CoNEXT and ACM SIGCOMM GAIA and has been covered in the media (NYTimes, MIT Technology Review, Popular Science, Boston Globe, Gizmodo, Mashable, among others). In addition, his dissertation research on Internet topology and robustness ("Internet Atlas") has recently been named as "One of the 100 Greatest Innovations of 2017" and has won a number of awards including UW-Madison CS Department "Graduate Research Award" for best dissertation research in 2018 and the "Best of What's New" (in the security category) by the Popular Science Magazine in 2017. Research Interests Ram's research vision is to create a "robust Internet" by understanding the Internet's structure and behavior through principled measurements. To that end, Ram is developing techniques for (i) measuring and analyzing the topological structure of the Internet, (ii) measuring and understanding end-to-end path dynamics, and (iii) designing scalable and deployable systems to mitigate risks, vulnerabilities and outages. Broadly speaking, Ram has addressed research questions in several areas of computer networking including network measurements and analysis, network economics, large-scale network simulations, debugging and testing in software-defined networks, mobile and wireless communication, Internet of things, visualization and security, and datacenter transport protocols.. 
