 Stephen Fickas, Professor Computer Science Dept. Deschutes Hall University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403 office: (541) 346-3964 fax: (541) 346-5373 email: fickas@cs.uoregon.edu Keynote Talk From RE12 Mobile and Agile: Why can't they get along? Home Research Teaching Other Welcome to my academic home page, somewhat unofficial but the place I try to keep up to date. Unless you are a researcher working alone in a garage, a page like this is really a portal into a research group. In my group, I have a fabulous set of colleagues that mix computer science with clinical science. This mixture has been very good for me, leading me to think about my field, requirements engineering, in new ways. I am also part of a group that has been thinking hard about data science and how best to support it from a framework and community point of view. More details under the tabs. We are in the final year of a five-year project to help post-secondary students who are struggling with reading. One of the reasons I am excited about this project in that it brings both personalization and context-aware adaptation to the fore. The project, CampusReader, has a home page and an email alerter if you are interested in following it: www.campusreader.org. I continue to push on the idea of using hybrid simulation to test mobile apps. See the link to my RE12 Keynote talk above for latest. I've been working with Dejing Dou (www.cs.uoregon.edu/~dou) over the last 4 years on a learning analytics problem using CampusReader as a foundation (see the papers Gutierrez et al under Research). This led to my broader interest in couching the problem in a data science context. And this eventually led to a particular interest in the software engineering of data analysis workflows with my colleague Boyana Norris (www.cs.uoregon.edu/~norris). A group of us is actively pursuing a new data science workbench (software and hardware) called Flare. I want to give a special thanks, upfront on my home page, to two groups. First, a special appreciation to all the students who have participated in my projects over the many years. If you are in academia, you know that students do much of the heavy lifting in research. Second, much thanks to the funding agencies that have supported my group's work, and allowed us to deliver tools that seem to be helping: NSF, NIH, FTA (and United We Ride), The National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research (NIDRR). Shelfari: Book reviews Share a book review on Shelfari, where this reader meets fellow readers. 
