jason h. anderson professor and associate chair (research) dept. of electrical and computer engineering, university of toronto people pubs teaching contact facebook Programmable Digital Systems Group welcome! We are a creative and energetic research group exploring interesting ideas in the design and synthesis of digital systems, especially in the programmable hardware realm. More about Professor Jason H. Anderson and the research team . research themes Prof. Anderson's research relates to computer hardware design, and specifically to field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs). An FPGA is a programmable computer chip that can be configured by the end-user to implement any digital circuit. As such, FPGAs are much different than traditional chips which are fabricated to perform a specific function. FPGAs are a $5 billion dollar market today, and are used in many applications including networking, automotive, consumer and industrial electronics. Dr. Anderson's work seeks to improve FPGAs from the area, speed, power and ease-of-use perspectives by innovations in FPGA circuits, architectures and tools. He is also interested in applications of FPGAs, particularly in area and power-constrained settings such as embedded systems. One of the application areas we are pursuing is implementing machine learning algorithms (artificial neural networks) on FPGAs to achieve higher energy effiency than standard processors. Prof. Anderson's other research interests lie in computer-aided design (CAD) algorithms for integrated circuits, digital design and circuits, computer architecture and software engineering. LegUp: A large on-going project that aims to automatically compile C programs to processor/accelerator FPGA-based systems. The LegUp project is co-led by Profs. Anderson and Stephen Brown. Currently on its fourth public release, over 5000 researchers around the world have downloaded our high-level synthesis tool! Check out the LegUp research project website and try it out yourself! And, learn about the start-up company commercializing LegUp technology. Research Group Wiki aims We are attracted to research endeavours that align with three overarching criteria: Novelty: We seek novel and innovative solutions to real problems, and prefer to be the first to break ground in new fields. Accessibility: We pursue research that can be used and built-upon by others, that benefits the research community and the broader society, and that has low barriers to its practical application. Impact: We aspire to produce results that are widely cited by other researchers, and we strive for excellence as recognized by our peers in the research community and in industry. latest news February 2019: Congrats to Brett and Steven for completing their M.A.Sc. degrees! Congrats to Julie on her paper accepted to DAC 2019, which will be held in Las Vegas! "Thread Weaving: Static Resource Scheduling for Multithreaded High-Level Synthesis," Hsiao, Chen, Anderson. January 2019: UofT ECE or EngSci undergrads interested in summer research projects on high-level synthesis (LegUp), computer hardware, machine learning, should please email their CV and Acorn transcript to Prof. Anderson by January 31. November 2018: UofT's Faculty of Applied Science and Engineering is launching new minor and certificate programs in Artificial Intelligence Engineering. The cross-disciplinary AI minor and certificate will be accessible to all undergraduate engineering students. More info September 2018: Congratulations to Jin Hee, Brett, Steven and Betty (Jing) (McGill) on their accepted papers to the 2018 IEEE Int'l Conference on Field-Programmable Technology (FPT)! FPT will be held in December at Okinawa, Japan. "FPGA Architecture Enhancements for Efficient BNN Implementation," Kim, Lee, Anderson "Compact Area and Performance Modelling for CGRA Architecture Evaluation," Niu, Anderson "Synthesizable Heterogeneous FPGA Fabrics," Grady, Anderson "Software-Specified FPGA Accelerators for Elementary Functions," Chen, Liu, Anderson September 2018: Congratulations to Xander on finishing his PhD degree! Well done Dr. Chin! As part of his PhD, Xander launched and led the CGRA-ME architecture modelling and evaluation framework project. June 2018: Dr. Jongsok (James) Choi from LegUp Computing presented a keynote/invited talk at HEART 2018 about an FPGA-accelerated Memcached key/value store deployed in the AWS cloud. More details Previous: Older news. Copyright (c) 2018 Jason H. Anderson. All rights reserved. Design by CSS Templates .
