Professor Stephen Brown Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Toronto 10 Kings College Road Toronto, ON, Canada, M5S 3G4 Office: PT484C (Pratt building, 4th floor). Campus Map E-mail: brown@eecg.toronto.edu tel: (416) 978-1647 Biography Stephen Brown received the Ph.D and M.A.Sc degrees in Electrical Engineering from the University of Toronto, and his B.A.Sc degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of New Brunswick. He joined the University of Toronto faculty in 1992, where he is a Professor in the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering. He is also the Director of the University Program at the Intel Programmable Solutions Group (formerly the Altera Toronto Technology Centre), a world-leading research and development site for CAD software and FPGA architectures. His research interests include field-programmable VLSI technology, CAD algorithms, and computer architecture. He is a principal investigator in the LegUp project , which provides an open-source high-level synthesis framework. He won the Canadian Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Councils 1992 Doctoral Prize for the best Ph.D. thesis in Canada. He has won multiple awards for excellence in teaching electrical engineering, computer engineering, and computer science courses. He is a coauthor of more than 100 scientific research papers and three textbooks: Fundamentals of Digital Logic with Verilog Design , Fundamentals of Digital Logic with VHDL Design , and Field-Programmable Gate Arrays . Research Google Scholar Citations Publications Textbooks These books are available from McGraw Hill, in three editions each, in various languages (English, Chinese (short form and long form), Korean, Spanish, and Greek). Fundamentals of Digital Logic with Verilog Design, Third Edition Fundamentals of Digital Logic with VHDL Design, Third Edition Courses Taught ECE253 - Introduction to Digital Logic and Computer Organization ECE1733F - Switching Theory (graduate level) ECE241F - Digital Systems ECE342S - Computer Hardware The content of each course is described on the University of Toronto Blackboard system. Students registered in a course can access the course content by using their log-in to the portal
