Frey Lab Probabilistic and Statistical Inference Group University of Toronto Our current research focuses on leveraging the power of artificial intelligence, especially deep learning techniques, to advance biology, medicine and healthcare. Lab members have also studied computer vision, image processing, speech processing, coding and various machine learning techniques in the past. The group is led by Brendan J. Frey (fellow of AAAS, IEEE and the Royal Society of Canada, and senior fellow of CIFAR) in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering , with cross appointments in Computer Science , Donnelly Centre for Cellular and Biomolecular Research , University of Toronto and Vector Institute for Artificial Intelligence . Scientific inquiries and management questions are also handled by senior research scientist and lab manager Leo J. Lee . If you are interested in joining the group, please click here . Latest News 11/2015: Two of the Top 10 papers in 2015 came from our lab, as selected by RECOMB Regulatory and Systems Genomics. 07/2015: Frey lab launches a startup company Deep Genomics to transform precision medicine, genetic testing, diagnostics and the development of therapies. Current Research Highlight Predicting the sequence specificities of DNA- and RNA-binding proteins by deep learning The August issue of Nature Biotechnology highlighted our latest work on the cover. We show that deep learning architecture can discover the binding specificities of DNA and RNA-binding proteins from raw sequences. By accurately modelling how proteins bind to DNA and RNA, we can predict how mutations affect binding --- a key building block for computational identification of disease-causing mutations. Reference Babak Alipanahi, Andrew Delong, Matthew T Weirauch and Brendan J Frey. Predicting the sequence specificities of DNA- and RNA-binding proteins by deep learning. Nature Biotechnology doi:10.1038/nbt.3300. Published online July 27 2015. [ DeepBind article ] [ DeepBind web page ] Home News Research Tools Publications People Visiting Join Us Enter your search terms Submit search form Home News Research Tools Publications People Visiting Join Us Wiki Sign in Copyright 2009 - 2019 Probabilistic and Statistical Inference Group
