About Profile Awards Research SAVI Network and Testbeds Connected Vehicles and Smart Transportation Network Criticality Green Networking and Cloud Computing Smart Grids Optical Fabrics for Datacenters Autonomic Service Architecture Virtual Application Networking Infrastructure Publications Books Recent Publications Patents Presentations Students Teaching Professor, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering alberto.leongarcia'at'utoronto.ca Telephone: 1-416-978-4764 Fax: 1-416-978-6876 Office: Bahen Building, 40 St. George Street, Room BA4120 Mailing Address: Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Toronto 10 King's College Circle Toronto, ON, Canada M5S 3G4 Welcome I am a Professor in Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Toronto and hold a Canada Research Chair in Autonomic Service Architecture. My research interest is in adaptive resource management using virtualization and service-oriented approaches in very large-scale systems of various types: In application platforms, we are developing a testbed for an extended computing cloud that incorporates a smart network edge and virtualized integrated wireless-optical access. For future connected vehicles, we are developing a data management platform for gathering, distributing, storing, and mining state information that can be used by public and private application providers to deliver intelligent transportation and transit services. In smart grids, we have proposed several scheduling and demand management schemes. Our management and control algorithms are based on novel graph-theoretic models that capture the interdependencies between states in different parts of a network. We are also investigating control algorithms that promote the use of renewable power in communications networks and computing clouds. Ms Frizzles quote describes what has always been my approach to research. I believe firmly that we have an unprecedented opportunity to apply technology to improve the lot of humankind. And so I encourage all young researchers to follow Ms Frizzles advice: "Take chances, make mistakes, get messy!" I am also the author of the popular textbook Probability and Random Processes for Electrical Engineering , and co-author of the textbook Communication Networks: Fundamental Concepts and Key Architecture. I am always happy and grateful to receive comments, corrections, and suggestions to improve my books.
