Home News People Research Areas Publications Contact Us University of Toronto Laboratory for Power Management and Integrated Switch-Mode Power Supplies Welcome Welcome to the web site of the Laboratory for Power Management and Integrated Switch-Mode Power Supplies (SMPS). We are a research and educational lab with general focus on modern power electronics. Our programs, incorporate research related to SMPS converter topologies and systems, digital control, and mixed-signal IC design for power electronics. The applications range from miniature power supply systems for portable electronics and medical applications to power electronics for vehicles. Our unique program combines power electronics and control with traditionally strong research in mixed-signal IC design at the University of Toronto, one of the World's best engineering schools. Our main goals are: To create and disseminate new knowledge through research and training of future industry and academic leaders. To solve "real life" problems through collaborative research with industry and other research institutions. To maintain this research program highly attractive to the world's best students. Please be free to explore our web site and find more about our people, program and the exciting research areas we are exploring. History and Research Support We were formed in June 2004, as an addition to the Energy System Group of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Toronto. The work of our laboratory is mostly supported by industry partners, National science and Engineering Council of Canada (NSERC), and the Canadian Microelectronics Corporation (CMC). Recent News IEEE APEC 2013 Best Presentation Award Adrian Straka received the best presentation award at the IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exhibition (APEC) IEEE COMPEL 2012 Best Paper Award Damien Frost, M.Sc., received the best paper award at the IEEE Control and Modeling Power of Electronics 2012 held in Kyoto, Japan. 2012 Inventor of the Year Award Prof. Aleksandar Prodic received an Inventor of the Year Award from the University of Toronto in the area of Engineering and Physical Science. IEEE APEC 2012 Best Presentation Award S.M. Ahsanuzzaman received the best presentation award at the IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and Exhibition (APEC) Menu Home News People Research Areas Publications Contact Us Designed by Blue Website Templates Home News People Research Areas Publications Contact Us
