Sargent Group Team Alumni - Faculty Alumni - Industry Alumni - Academic Scientists & Professionals Prof. Ted Sargent Program Directors Administration Research Associates Post-Doctoral Fellows Graduate Students Technical Specialists Research Nanobiosensors Light Emission CQD Photovoltaics Perovskites Renewable Fuels Publications 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Nature Family and Science ALD News & Info News Links Funding Alumni News Careers Contact Previous Next Latest News Mingyang, Pelayo, Grant and colleagues publish "Ultrafast narrowband exciton routing within layered perovskite nanoplatelets enables low-loss luminescent solar concentrators" in Nature Energy Tao-Tao and Yuanjie's Nature Catalysis paper featured as Cover Article and in News and Views as "Geometry aids green carbon electrochemistry". Cao, Pelayo, Ankit, and colleagues publish "Multi-site electrocatalysts for hydrogen evolution in neutral media by destabilization of water molecules" in Nature Energy UofT's Ted Sargent, Sjoerd Hoogland, Oleksandr Voznyy, and Doug Stephan all named to the 2018 High Cited Researcher list in Material Science Doctoral student Phil De Luna is a Forbes Energy 30 under 30. Each year, Forbes finds 30 young stars in the energy sector under the age of 30. Our own Phil De Luna is among this year's laureates Jun, Fanglin, Yuanjie, Chengqin and colleagues publish "Copper adparticle enabled selective electrosynthesis of n-propanol" in Nature Communications. Tao-Tao, Yuanjie and colleagues publish "Copper nanocavities confine intermediates for efficient electrosynthesis of C3 alcohol fuels from carbon monoxide" in Nature Catalysis Postdoctoral Fellowships at the University of Toronto: Understanding and designing new electrocatalysts with the aid of first-principles calculations and machine learning Lina, Pelayo, Xiwen, Jeff publish "Perovskite light-emitting diodes with external quantum efficiency exceeding 20 percent" in Nature Hairen, Makhsud and colleagues publish "Challenges for commercializing perovskite solar cells" in Science Zhi-Qin, Taotao, Ali and colleagues publish "Copper-on-nitride enhances the stable electrosynthesis of multi-carbon products from CO2" in Nature Communications Rafael and colleagues publish "Compositional and orientational control in metal halide perovskites of reduced dimensionality" in Nature Materials More News Welcome to the Sargent Group In our work and our team we unite chemistry, physics, and engineering within eight experimental laboratories at the University of Toronto. Our mission is to: advance the physics and chemistry of optoelectronic materials and devices, and to apply this knowledge to solve real-world problems in sustainable energy, sensing and medical diagnostics; contribute to the preservation of the natural environment and to the advancement of information technology, human health, and the vibrancy and growth of the innovation economy; collaborate with academic and industry experts around the world to maximize the impact of our work; equip our group members with the vision and the tools to make a significant impact in the fields to which their passions take them, and our alumni with a tightly-woven, supportive, and straight-talking network of committed friends and collaborators for life; work towards these goals by attracting a diverse and inclusive team of researchers from all relevant disciplines, from around the world; foster a culture of win-win teamwork; of communication that clarifies and finds analogies, connections, synergies, and new avenues; and of striving for excellence. Latest Alumni News Today, doctoral alumnus Bernard Kelley Sargent received the gift of Sloth from the research group at the group holiday party at The Rivoli. Post-Doctoral Alumnus Dr. Jongmin Choi joins DGIST in South Korea as an Assistant Professor in the Department of Energy Science & Engineering Doctoral Alumna Xiwen Gong joins Stanford as a Schmidt Science Post-Doctoral Fellow with Zhenan Bao Post-Doctoral Alumnus Dr. Md Golam Kibria joins the University of Calgary as an Assistant Professor in Chemical and Petroleum Engineering Post-Doctoral Alumnus Dr. Zhenyu (Kevin) Yang joins Sun Yat-Sen University as a Professor in Chemistry Research Staff Alumnus Dr. Oleksandr Voznyy joins University of Toronto - Scarborough as an Assistant Professor in Chemistry Visiting Doctoral Alumnus Yicheng Zhao awarded Humboldt Fellowship Doctoral Alumna Dr. Mahla Poudineh joins Stanford as Post-Doctoral Fellow working with Tom Soh Doctoral Alumnus Prof. Jiang Tang wins support from National Science Fund for Distinguished Young Scholars Doctoral Alumna Dr. Lina Quan joins Berkeley as Post-Doctoral Fellow working with Peidong Yang Post-Doctoral Alumnus Prof. Riccardo Comin publishes "Perovskite nickelates as electric-field sensors in salt water" in Nature Doctoral Alumnus Dr. Bruce Jixian Xu joins Stanford as Post-Doctoral Fellow working with Mike McGehee More Alumni News Research We apply discoveries in nanoscience towards applications relevant to energy, health, and sensing. More Info Publications Our group publishes in prominent journals in the field of nanotechnology, chemistry and materials science. More Info Team Our group members come from diverse backgrounds spanning chemistry, physics and engineering. More Info Sargent Group Sargent Group, Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Toronto Email: ted.sargent@utoronto.ca Email: Please enable Javascript to see the email address Telephone: 416-946-5051 View our Contact Us page for full contact details Careers Click here to view our current positions. Copyright 2019 Sargent Group Home XML Sitemap Valid XHTML Web Design Toronto
