Home / Research / People / Publications / Courses / Contact / Links / Misc Costas Sarris, Ph.D. Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering The Eugene V. Polistuk Chair in Electromagnetic Design University of Toronto Costas Sarris received a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering and a M.Sc. in Applied Mathematics from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, in 2002. He also received a Diploma in Electrical and Computer Engineering (with distinction) from the National Technical University of Athens (NTUA) , Greece, in 1997. He joined the University of Toronto in 2002, where he is now a Full Professor at the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering . In 2009-2010, he was a Visiting Associate Professor at the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign . His research interests are in the area of numerical electromagnetics, with emphasis in high-order, multiscale/multi-physics computational methods. He is involved with basic research in novel numerical techniques, as well as applications of time-domain analysis to wireless channel modeling, wave-propagation in complex media and meta-materials, electromagnetic compatibility/interference (EMI/EMC) problems and modeling under uncertainty. He also teaches undergraduate courses in electromagnetics and wireless systems, and graduate courses in numerical electromagnetics and antenna theory. Prof. Sarris was a recipient of the 2013 IEEE MTT-S Outstanding Young Engineer Award . He also received the Early Researcher Award from the Ontario Government in 2007, the Canada Foundation for Innovation New Opportunities Fund Award in 2004, and a Student Paper Award at the 2001 International Microwave Symposium. His students have received student paper awards at the 2015 IEEE Wireless Power Transfer Conference, the 2009 IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium, the 2008 Applied Computational Electromagnetics Society conference and the 2008, 2009, 2018 IEEE International Symposia on Antennas and Propagation. On the teaching side, Prof. Sarris received the Gordon R. Slemon (teaching of design) award in 2007 and a Departmental Teaching Award (by confidential vote of ECE students, for excellence in undergraduate teaching) in 2006 and 2016. Prof. Sarris is the Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Journal of Multiphysics/Multiscale Computational Techniques (JMMCT) and the Chair of the IEEE MTT-S Technical Committee on Microwave Field Theory (MTT-15) . He was an Associate Editor for the IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques (2009-2012) and the IEEE Microwave and Wireless Components Letters (2007-2009), as well as Guest Editor of the IEEE Microwave Magazine Special Issue on Time-Domain Methods for Microwave CAD (April 2010). He was the Technical Program Committee Chair for the 2015 IEEE Int. Symposium on Antennas and Propagation and URSI North Americal Meeting in Vancouver, BC; Vice Chair of the Technical Program Committee of the 2012 IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium in Montreal, QC; Technical Program Committee co-Chair for the 2010 IEEE Int. Symposium on Antennas and Propagation and URSI North Americal Meeting in Toronto, ON. He has served as Chair of the Sub-Committee on Time and Frequency Domain Methods of the Technical Program Committee of the IEEE MTT-S International Microwave Symposium. Professor Sarris was an Associate Chair of the Division of Engineering Science , University of Toronto, between September 2011 and July 2014. Administrative Staff Jian Shen Administrative Assistant Tel: 416-946-8735 gigi.shen@utoronto.ca Graduate Students Stefanos Bakirtzis B.Sc., National Technical University of Athens M.A.Sc. student Aaron Kogon B.A.Sc., Engineering Science, University of Toronto M.A.Sc. student Kae-An Liu B.Sc., National Taiwan University M.A.Sc. student Aris Seretis B.Sc., National Technical University of Athens M.A.Sc. student Sameer Sharma M.Sc., Panjab University Ph.D. student Neeraj Sood B.Sc./M.A.Sc. University of Toronto Ph.D. student Xingqi Zhang B.Sc., Harbin University M.A.Sc., University of Toronto Ph.D. student Qiming Zhao B.Sc./M.Sc., Tsinghua University Ph.D. student Derrick Zhou B.Sc., Colorado State University M.A.Sc. student Alumni Weibin Hao Visiting Ph.D. project: Electromagnetic compatibility and interference analysis for train communication systems ( Ph.D. student, Beijing Jiao Tong University ). Hans-Dieter Lang Ph.D. thesis: Optimization of wireless power transfer systems with multiple transmitters and receivers ( Lecturer and Research Associate at the University of Applied Sciences Rapperswil, Switzerland. ) Xiao-Kun Wei Visiting Ph.D. project: Spatially-filtered FDTD analysis of ground penetrating radar problems beyond the CFL limit ( Ph.D. student, USTC ). Shashwat Sharma M.A.Sc. thesis: Multiphysics Design Optimization of Microwave Ablation Antennas ( Ph.D. student with Prof. Triverio's group. ) Dr. Alon Ludwig Post-doctoral project: Near-field antennas, RF ablation, plasmonics, wireless power transfer ( R&D Engineer, Mathworks, Boston, MA. ) Dr. Andrew Austin Post-doctoral project: Uncertainty quantification, wireless channel modeling ( Lecturer, University of Auckland, New Zealand. ) Dr. Kevin Zhu Post-doctoral project: Optimal pulses for underwater communications, biomedical ultrasound imaging ( R&D Engineer, ANSYS, Pittsburgh, PA. ) Dr. Yaxun Liu Post-doctoral project: Adaptive Mesh Refinement FDTD/Plasmonics ( Software developer, AMD, Toronto. ) Xingqi Zhang M.A.Sc. thesis: Development, Analysis, and Validation of Parabolic Equation/Ray-Tracing Techniques in Railway Environments ( Ph.D. student with Prof. Sarris' group. ) Jason Gu M.A.Sc. thesis: Enhancing the Efficiency of the Polynomial Chaos Expansion Finite-Difference Time-Domain Method. Roberto Armenta Ph.D. thesis: The principle of coordinate invariance and the modeling of curved material interfaces in finite-difference discretisations of Maxwell's equations ( Research Engineer at Lumerical Inc., Vancouver. ) Xue (Sherry) Yu M.A.Sc. thesis: FDTD Modeling of Graphene-Based RF Devices: Fundamental Aspects and Applications ( IC CAD R&D Engineer, Analog Devices, Wilmington, MA. ) Chun Chang M.A.Sc. thesis: A spatially- filtered Finite-Difference Time-Domain Method with controllable stability beyond the Courant limit ( Engineer, Ciena Corp., Ottawa. ) Neeraj Sood M.A.Sc. thesis: Realistic assessment of novel wireless systems with ray-tracing based techniques ( Ph.D. student with Prof. Sarris' group. ) Dongying Li Ph.D. thesis: Efficient Time-Domain Modeling of Periodic-Structure-Based Microwave and Optical Geometries ( Assistant Professor, Shanghai Jiao Tong University .) Vinu Vairavanathan M.A.Sc. thesis: FDTD Characterization of Antenna-Channel Interaction via Macromodeling ( Software Engineer, Cisco, Toronto. ) Jackie Leung M.A.Sc. thesis: Hybrid Waveguide Theory-Based Modeling of Indoor Wireless Propagation ( Lab Research Project Manager at The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto. ) Reza Safian (co-advisor: Mo Mojahedi) Ph.D. thesis: Time and Frequency Evolution of Precursors in Dispersive Media and their Applications ( Assistant Professor, Isfahan University, Iran. ) Abbas Alighanbari Ph.D. thesis: Time-Domain Electromagnetic Modeling of UWB Indoor Wireless Channels and Systems ( Assistant Professor, Shiraz University, Iran. ) Roberto Armenta M.A.Sc. thesis: Analysis of Radio Frequency Interference in Digital Subscriber Line Systems ( Research Engineer at Lumerical Inc., Vancouver. ) Pendar Yusefi M.A.Sc. thesis: A Hybrid Rectangular-Curvilinear FDTD Method for the Simulation of Twisted-Pair Bundles ( UX Lead, Google Translate, San Francisco, CA. ) Wenqian Han M.A.Sc. thesis: Analysis of Crosstalk in Twisted-Pair Cable Binders for DSL Applications ( Engineer at Ciena Corp., Ottawa. ) Gerard Baron M.A.Sc. thesis: Graphics Hardware Accelerated Time-Domain Modeling of Wireless Channel Geometries ( technology product management at Ferraris and Baron, LLC. ) Titos Kokkinos M.A.Sc. thesis: Periodic Finite-Difference Time-Domain Analysis of Negative-Refractive Index Metamaterials ( Patent Examiner with the European Patent Office, Munich, Germany ). Home / Research / People / Publications / Courses / Contact / Links / Misc Costas D. Sarris
