 Kevin Fu Kevin Fu Associate Professor IEEE Fellow, Sloan Research Fellow Computer Science and Engineering Electrical Engineering and Computer Science University of Michigan Contact Bio CV HomePublicationsResearchTalksServiceTeachingStudentsMusingsFunBlog Recent Publication: Blue Note (IEEE S&P) My research focuses on embedded security: the art and science of creating embedded systems resistant to attack. Medical devices, autonomous vehicles, and the Internet of Things depend crucially on embedded security. As part of my 164-year research plan to improve the trustworthiness of medical device software, I direct the Archimedes Center for Medical Device Security and the Security and Privacy Research (SPQR) group. I write a blog on medical device security and safety. I co-founded the healthcare cybersecurity company Virta Labs, Inc. based in Seattle. Selected Talks and Events (less incomplete list): University of Oregon, CMU CyLab Seminar, Cambridge University Computer Laboratory Security Seminar, CRA CCC Symposium on Computing Research National Priorities and Societal Needs Toons: Announcements: Teaching graduate computer security with a focus on embedded security; Chair of CCC Cybersecurity Task Force; Senate testimony; House testimony; Program chair for USENIX Security; Appointment to ACM Committee on Computers and Public Policy; first graduate course in the nation dedicated to medical device security. Fun stuff: Cybersecurity standup comedy. I wrote the lyrics of a Taylor Swift-inspired a capella music video about programming. I used to maintain a collection of links on why Ann Arbor is cool. Undergrads considering graduate school: When my students are not kiteboarding on the beautiful shores of Lake Michigan, they are probably publishing security research with an emphasis on analog sensor security or medical device security within the field of embedded security. Prospective graduate students can read advice on how to write more effective graduate school applications. This event was part of a larger national set of workshops to broaden participation in computing research. Also see my links to reports on women in computing research. Undergraduate researcher blogs: Hanna Kawoosa (U-M Computer Engineering) Marcus Oh (Univ. Minnesota) Barbara Zhong (U-M Computer Engineering) Christina Zhu (Harvey Mudd College) Honors: IEEE Fellow for contributions to embedded and medical device security, IEEE mellow fellow, Top Influencers in Health InfoSec, Top Security Change Agents, World Economic Forum Young Scientist, Fed100 Award, TR35 Innovator of the Year, Sloan Fellowship, NSF CAREER, Paper Awards [ACM SIGCOMM, IEEE S&P, USENIX Security] News: NY Times, Slashdot interview, NBC Chicago, NY Times, Scientific American, MIT Technology Review, Slashdot, Economist, PBS Newshour, Forbes, BBC, LA Times, NIST. [Archived news] Selected publications (less incomplete list): Blue Note: How Intentional Acoustic Interference Damages Availability and Integrity in Hard Disk Drives and Operating Systems (IEEE S&P) How We Reverse Engineered the Cuban "Sonic Weapon" Attack (IEEE Spectrum) Inside Risks: Risks of Trusting the Physics of Sensors (CACM) WALNUT: Waging Doubt on the Integrity of MEMS Accelerometers with Acoustic Injection Attacks (IEEE Euro S&P) Ghost Talk: Mitigating EMI Signal Injection Attacks against Analog Sensors (IEEE S&P) TARDIS: Time and Remanence Decay in SRAM to Implement Secure Protocols on Embedded Devices without Clocks (USENIX Security) Half-Wits: Software Techniques for Low-Voltage Probabilistic Storage on Microcontrollers with NOR Flash Memory (ACM TECS) Mementos: System Support for Long-Running Computation on RFID-Scale Devices (ACM ASPLOS) Pacemakers and Implantable Cardiac Defibrillators: Software Radio Attacks and Zero-Power Defenses (IEEE S&P) Selected talks (complete list): Affiliations: THaW, Security @Michigan, SPQR Lab, Archimedes, SHARPS, TerraSwarm, RFID CUSP Recent research support: National Science Foundation, DHS, ADI, Archimedes Join the Blue Ribbon Online Free Speech Campaign! 
