Zeb Tate Associate Professor The Edward S. Rogers Sr. Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Toronto 10 King's College Road, SF 1021G Toronto, ON M5S 3G4 Phone: 416 978 1808 Email: zeb.tate@utoronto.ca Curriculum Vitae Publications Research interests My research focuses on improving the reliability of the power grid by leveraging new metering and processor technologies. Some specific research ideas I am currently investigating are: Using advanced power metering technologies to enhance the situational awareness of grid operators (keywords: smart grid, phasor measurement units, situational awareness, visualization, wide area monitoring and control, outage detection) Incorporating wind forecasts, load forecasts, generator reserves, and outage information to quantify the impact of wind variability on system reliability (keywords: wind power integration, forecasting, reliability) Improving online power system simulation tools by utilizing advanced processors and architectures (keywords: transient simulation, high performance computing, graphical processing units, stream processing) Courses taught ECE 359 - Energy conversion (Fall 2009) This course is intended to provide students with an understanding of the principles of operation, modeling and analysis of electric energy conversion devices. ECE 413 - Energy systems and distributed generation (Spring 2009, Spring 2010) This course is intended to provide students with an understanding of the principles of operation, modeling and analysis of electric power systems. ECE 1085 - Power system optimization (Spring 2010) This course is intended to serve as an introduction to optimization in the context of power system operations. Supervised design projects Smart Home: Remote Energy Monitoring and Automation System [ project poster ], by Ted Herman, Paul Haist, and Nahid Hassan A wireless network of nodes monitors and controls power consumption of appliances in the home. The user interface is accessible through any web-enabled device. Links to other websites The University of Toronto (UofT) , my place of employment The Edward S. Rogers Sr. Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering , my department The Energy Systems group at the UofT , where I spend most of my time
