Shah rokh Valaee Professor Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Toronto 10 King's College Road Toronto, ON, Canada, M5S 3G4 Research Team Publications Talks Alumni Contact I am a professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Toronto. I am a member of the Communications Group , and my research is on Signal Processing and Wireless Networks . In signal processing, my research focuses on localization of wireless terminals in areas where GPS signal is not available. I am also interested in Machine Learning for Medical Imaging . In wireless networks, we work on scheduling for 5G networks which also includes Vehicular Networks . OUR RESEARCH Localization of Wireless Terminals We have developed an accurate location estimation technique for indoor environment using compressive sensing. The proposed algorithm has been developed on HP PDA and Android devices and tested in Bahen Centre at the University of Toronto, Bayview Village shopping mall in North Toronto, and the Canadian National Institute for Blind (CNIB). Currently, we are using machine learning for location estimation. See our demo here. [very large file] and our patents: S. Valaee, C. Feng, and A. W. S. Au, "System, Method, and Computer Program for Anonymous Localization," US 14/576,586. S. Valaee and C. Feng, "System, method and computer program for dynamic generation of a radio map for indoor positioning of mobile devices," US 13/927,510. S. Shahidi and S. Valaee, "Indoor localization using crowdsourced data," US 14/745,873 Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks Our research in vehicular networks focuses on interference management in wireless channel. The research includes both 802.11p Wireless Access in Vehicular Environment (WAVE), and the 3GPP C-V2X standards. We have shown that 802.11p suffers from significant interference that limits the number of vehicles that can participate in the network. Unfortunately the C-V2X standard does not provide any distributed scheduling. Using the concept of Pseudo Orthogonal Codes (POC), we have designed effective distributed schedulers that are applicable to both 802.11p and C-V2X. We have also shown that POC can be combined by opportunistic network coding to enhance the reliability of packet transmission in vehicular broadcast channel. We have further shown that Compressive Sensing can be used to reconstruct the vehicle data that is missed on lossy wireless channel. Here is demo of an earlier version of our algorithms on YouTube . Machine Learning for Medical Imaging In collaboration with researchers from the Department of Medical Imaging at St. Michael's Hospital in Toronto, we are working on the application of Deep Neural Networks for medical image classification. Our research on machine learning has allowed us to also explore other types of data (such as voice) on navigation. In our resent paper, we have developed an indoor navigation application based on voice-user interaction to help provide directions for users without assistance of a localization system. The performance studies show the superiority of our technique compared to the existing literature. Visit the webpage of Machine Intelligence in Medicine Lab (MIMLab) . see our latest results: https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.02238 https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.09254 https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.01078 News Our Machine Learning research in media: ECE at UofT UofT Engineering UofT News Medicine News Line R&D Magazine AuntMinnie Inquisitr Innovations Report Press Cute News Chest Technology AI Topics Startup Toronto Le Victoria Droit Canada AI Healthcare Business BrightSurf ML Today Professor Valaee gave the Keynote Speech at the 20th International Conference on Network-Based Information Systems (NBiS-2017), entitled "Cooperative Self-driving Vehicles." "Cooperative Self-driving Vehicles," IEEE Toronto - Communication Society Chapter, COM-SOC Tutorial, Nov 2017. Professor Valaee gave a Tutorial at VTC Fall 2017 on "Connected Vehicles". Professor Valaee gave an invited talk at the 3rd International Workshop Research Advancements in Future Internet Architectures (RAFNET), in conjunction with IEEE VTC Fall 2017, entitled "User Localization in Next Generation Wireless Networks". Professor Valaee gave an invited talk at IEEE Toronto Chapter of Measurement-Instrument, Robotics and Automation, Ryerson University, Toronto, 2015, entitled "Connected Cars for Smart Cities". Professor Valaee gave the Keynote Speech at EAI International Conference on Smart Urban Mobility Services, October 2015, entitled "Connected Cars for Smart Urban Mobility". Professor Valaee gave the Plenary Speech at CSI Computer Conference, and Artificial Intelligence Workshop, Mashhad, Iran, 2015, entitled "Localization of Wireless nodes". OUR TEAM We have a vibrant group that concentrates on tackling difficult engineering problems. Our researchers are among the best with strong technical background and great programming skills. We use advanced signal processing and wireless networking techniques to solve challenging problems with a focus on mixing theory and practice. Our analytical strengths span a wide range that includes machine learning, compressive sensing, and network coding. We implement our machine learning algorithms on GPU hardware, and our localization algorithms on the Android planform. Prof. Shahrokh Valaee PhD, P.Eng, FEIC University of Toronto Dr. Navid Tadayon Post doctoral Fellow University of Toronto Dr. Slim Zaidi Post doctoral Fellow University of Toronto Prof. Carlos Campos Visiting Professor University of Rio de Janeiro Pavel Stoev Visitor from Industry FutureBound Inc. Zahra Naghsh PhD Candidate University of Toronto Hojjat Salehinejad PhD Candidate University of Toronto Muhammad Tahsin Rahman PhD Student University of Toronto Shuo Han MASc Student University of Toronto Jiankun Wang MASc Student University of Toronto Mohammad Javadkalbasi Visiting PhD Student Isfahan Univ. of Tech. Wanmai Yuan Visiting PhD Student Harbin Institute of Technology, China copyright Hojjat Salehinejad, Shahrokh Valaee
