Home Teaching U of T Activity Community Activity Success is when preparation meets opportunity. The Edward S. Rogers Sr. Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering Welcome Biography: Graduated with a Bachelor of Applied Science and Engineering (Honors) degree in Electrical Engineering of University of Toronto in 1986 and subsequently obtained a Masters of Engineering degree in the same discipline in 1990 specializing in electronic circuits. Started working for the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering , teaching/coordinating tutorials and laboratories for 2 nd and 3 rd year circuits and electronics courses and establishing and managing the undergraduate PC Network laboratory. Since her promotion to the rank of senior lecturer in 1999, Professor Wang had been primarily teaching 1 st and 2 nd year undergraduate courses including digital systems, introductory electronics, circuit theory, electrical fundamentals, electricity and magnetism, calculus and computer fundamentals. Her other teaching related activities include coordinating large (650+ students) multi-section classes that involved 6-7 instructors and 30+ teaching assistants; serving as a seminar leader and an engineering manager in the engineering strategies and practice course which is a multidisciplinary design focused course in the Faculty of Applied Science and Engineering ; working as an administrator in the Engineering Science and ECE capstone design courses and supervising 4 th year design projects. She was promoted to the rank of Associate Professor, Teaching Stream in July 2015. Her involvements in the laboratories included designing, simulating and testing of laboratory experiments and creating lab instruction manuals; prototyping experimental set-ups and modules; supervising lab technicians, summer students and co-op students, while serving as a faculty laboratory supervisor for six years. Belinda B. Wang P. Eng., M. Eng., B. A.Sc. Associate Professor, Teaching Stream University of Toronto 10 King's College Road Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5S 3G4 Phone: 416-978-5543 belinda.wang@utoronto.ca 4th Yr. Design Project 4th Yr. Design Project
