Professor Yu Sun UofT Engineering MIE Search Menu Skip to content Close menu UofT Engineering MIE Prof. Yu Sun Biography Research Publications Contact Professor Yu Sun Ph.D. (University of Minnesota), P.Eng., FCSME, FEIC, FASME, FIEEE, FCAE, FAAAS, FNAI Tier I Canada Research Chair in Micro and Nano Engineering Systems Areas of Research Key Words: robotics and automation at micro-nanometer scales; precision instrumentation; MEMS and microfluidics; cell mechanobiology; experimental cell mechanics and nanomechanics; manipulation and characterization of cells, molecules, and nanomaterials. My group designs and constructs enabling micro and nanosystems (e.g., micro-nanorobotic systems and MEMS/microfluidic devices) for automated operation at the micro and nanometer scales. We manipulate, characterize, and sense biological cells, biomolecules, and nanomaterials for both fundamental studies (e.g., molecule screen and genetics) and clinical/industrial applications (IVF, rare cell isolation, and precision instrumentation for industrial automation). The actively pursued areas are the manipulation and characterization of biological cells, molecules, and nanomaterials; microsystems and nanosystems; design and fabrication of MEMS and NEMS (micro-nanoelectromechanical systems); bioMEMS, sensors, actuators, and microfluidic devices; microrobotics and optical microscopy; nanorobotics and electron microscopy; automation at the micro-nanometer scales; cellular biophysics; and cellular biomechanics and mechanobiology. My Advanced Micro and Nanosystems Laboratory (AMNL) is affiliated with Dept. of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, Inst. of Biomaterials and Biomedical Engineering, and Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering.Our lab has an extensive collaborative network, with industry leaders (e.g., Hitachi High-Technologies), hospitals (e.g., Hospital for Sick Children), and collaborating researchers across continents. Our trainees are equipped with strong skills in instrumentation, micro-nano robotics, device design and microfabrication, computer vision microscopy, precision controls and measurement as well as strong communication skills, problem solving skills, and capabilities for interdisciplinary research and team work. More on research Visit the Advanced Micro and Nanosystems Laboratory Open postdoc and graduate positions Undergraduate research projects Suns biography Prof. Sun is jointly appointed in the Inst. of Biomaterials and Biomedical Engineering and in the Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering . Courses: MIE342: circuits with applications to mechanical engineering systems (3rd year) MIE404: control systems (4th year) MIE506: MEMS design and microfabrication (4th year capstone design course and graduate course) MIE1359: engineering cell biology and micro-nanoengineered platforms (graduate) Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering University of Toronto 5 Kings College Road Toronto, Ontario M5S 3G8 Email: sun@mie.utoronto.ca Tel: 416-946-0549 (office) Tel: 416-978-8663 (lab) Fax: 416-978-7753 Prof. Yu Sun University of Toronto Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering 5 King's College Road Toronto, Ontario M5S 3G8 Canada
