Dr.DimitrisMetaxas is a Distinguished Professor in theDepartment of Computer ScienceatRutgers Universitysince July 2007. From September 2001 to June 2007 he was a Professor in the same department. He is currently directing the Center for Computational Biomedicine, Imaging and Modeling(CBIM). From January 1998 to September 2001 he was a tenured Associate Professor in theComputer and Information Science Departmentof theUniversity of Pennsylvaniaand Director of the VAST Lab. Prior to this he was an Assistant Professor in the same department since 1992. Prof. Metaxas received a Diploma in Electrical Engineering from theNational Technical University of Athensof Athens Greece in 1986,anM.Sc. in Computer Science from theUniversity of Maryland, College Park in 1988, and a Ph.D. in Computer Science from theUniversity of Toronto, Ontario, Canada in 1992.Dr. Metaxas has been conducting research towards the development of formal methods upon whichboth computervision, computer graphics and medical imaging can advance synergistically. In computer vision, he works on the simultaneous segmentation and fitting of complex objects, shape representation, statistical model-based tracking, learning,sparsity,ASLand gesture recognition. In particular he is focusing on human body and shape motion analysis, human surveillance, security applications, ASL recognition, behavior modeling and analysis and scalable solutions to large and distributed sensor-based networks. In the area of biomedical applications new methods have been developed for material modeling and shape estimation of internal body parts (e.g., lungs) from MRI, SPAMM and CT data, a pioneering framework for linking the anatomical and physiological models of the human body and deformable models suitable for the automatic diagnosis of heart illness from MRI data. In computer graphics, he introduced theNavier-Stokes methodology for Fluids, based on which the water scenes in the movie ''Antz'' were created in 1998. For this work, his student Nick Foster won a TechnicalAcheivementaward from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in 1999. Since then, he is working on new techniques for modeling fluid phenomena, and control theoretic techniques for automating and improving the animation of articulated (e.g., humans) objects. Dr. Metaxas has published over 500 research articles (seegoogle scholar) in these areas and has graduated 42 PhD students. The above research has been funded byNSF,NIH,ONR,AFOSR,DHS,DARPAand theARO.Dr. Metaxas has published a book on his research activities titled ''Physics-based deformable models: Applications to computer vision, graphics and medical imaging'' published byKluwerAcademic. He organized the first IEEE Workshop on Physics-Based Modeling in ComputerVision,he is on the Editorial Board of Medical Imaging, as Associate Editor of GMOD, and CAD and is a Co-Editor of the Special Issue of Computer Vision and Image Understanding on Physics-Based Modeling and Reasoning. Dr. Metaxas has received7patentsand numerous best paper awards for his work on vision, medical imaging and fluid modeling. His studentJunzhouHuang won a Young Scientist Award (best paper award) for his work onsparsityfrom MICCAI 2010 and his recent work on Histopathologic Image Analysis by his student Menglin Jiang and Shaoting Zhang won a best paper award at MICCAI 2015. Dr Metaxas was awarded a Fulbright Fellowship in 1986, is a recipient of an NSF Research Initiation and Career awards, an ONR YIP, is a Fellow ofIEEEand a Fellow of theAmerican Institute of Medical and Biological Engineers, and a member ofACM. He was also the Program Chair of ICCV 2007 (best Computer Vision Conference), a General Chair ofICCV 2011, andCVPR 2014, the General Chair ofMICCAI 2008(best Medical Imaging Conference) and the Senior Program Chair forSCA 2007. He has also organize dnumerous workshops in his areas or research.Research InterestsResearch Areas:Computational Biomedicine, Computer Vision, Computer Graphics, Scientific Computations, Computational Neuroscience, Learning and Robotics, Dynamic Data Analytics.Major Emphasis:Novel theories for segmentation, dynamic object tracking and recognition, model-based learning, sparisty, physics-based and deformable object modeling, human behavior and movenent analytics, computer animation of fluid phenomena, scalable solutions to multidimensional and distributed learning problems.Applications:Human communication analytics, Human activity recognition, Dynamic and stochastic human tracking, Segmentation and tracking Methods, American sign language recognition, Cardiac modeling and analysis, Segmentation methods for internal organs, Cancer detection and recognition for lungs, breast, brain and the prostate, Functional anatomy, Sparse solutions for inverse problems, Modeling of complex physical phenomena, Fluid simulations, Crowd modeling and Analysis.
