 Alfred O. Hero, III Home of Alfred O. Hero, III Skip to content Menu Home Teaching Publications Publications Books Selected Presentations Reproducible Papers BIO/CV Honors & Awards Hero Research Group People Research Publications News Links Contact Home Teaching Publications Publications Books Selected Presentations Reproducible Papers BIO/CV Honors & Awards Hero Research Group People Research Publications News Links Contact Alfred Hero is the John H. Holland Distinguished University Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and the R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professor of Engineering at the University of Michigan. At the University of Michigan his primary appointment is in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS) and he has secondary appointments in the Department of Biomedical Engineering and the Department of Statistics. He is also affiliated with the UM Center for Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics (CCMB), the UM Graduate Program in Applied and Interdisciplinary Mathematics (AIM), and the Michigan Institute for Data Science (MIDAS). His research is on data science and developing theory and algorithms for data collection, analysis and visualization that use statistical machine learning and distributed optimization.These are being to applied to network data analysis, personalized health, multi-modality information fusion, data-driven physical simulation, materials science, dynamic social media, and database indexing and retrieval. Job opportunities (Contact me if interested) Faculty positions at UC San Diego Halicioglu Data Science Institute (HDSI). They are hiring faculty at all levels. Faculty positions at University of Delaware. They have a data science initiative and are hiring faculty at assistant and assoicate Professor. General Dynamics Mission Systems looking to hire an engineer familiar with signal processing, radar, communications, controls. US Citizens only. Home Teaching Publications Publications Books Selected Presentations Reproducible Papers BIO/CV Honors & Awards Hero Research Group People Research Publications News Links Contact Contact Alfred O. Hero, IIIJohn H. Holland Distinguished University Professor of EECS; R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professor of Engineering Recent news New Journal! SIAM Journal on Mathematics of Data Science Big Data in Finance Conference (Report) Envisioning the Data Science Discipline (Interim Report) News brief on work with Brian Sadler at ARL on 20 questions Hero is Committee Chair of CATS 2019 The Regents of the University of Michigan Michigan Engineering | College Administration, 1221 Beal Avenue, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2102 +1 (734) 647-7000 | Contact the College Safety Information | Privacy Policy | Acceptable Use Login | Logout 
