 H V Jagadish H V Jagadish Bernard A Galler Collegiate Professor of Elec. Engg. and Computer Science. University of Michigan 2260 Hayward Ave Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2121 Office: 4601 CSE Building Phone: (734) 763-4079 Fax: (734) 763-8094 jag at eecs . umich . edu Research My research has spanned many aspects of Big Data and Data Science. I recently coordinated the publication of a white paper on big data research challenges. A version of this has appeared in CACM, July 2014. I have made presentations at the National Academies [Government-University-Industry ROundtable (GUIRR) and Committee on Science Technology and the Law] on issues related to Big Data. I was elected fellow of the ACM in 2003. I have enjoyed serving on the board of the Computing Research Association (CRA) since 2009. I previously served as a trustee on the board of the very Large Database Endowment (2004-2010). I was the founding Editor-in-Chief of the Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment (2008-2014). I serve on the Advisory Committee for the University of the People. In 2013, I was recognized with a Contributions Award by the ACM SIG on Management of Data. Please see a more complete list of honors. A crucial question that runs through all of my research is how to build database systems and query models so that they are truly usable, and how to design analytics processes so that they can deliver real insights to non-technical decision-makers. Usability, for me, is not just a question of having a well-designed user interface: it has to be designed into the system from the beginning. For instance, a precise representation with a very complex schema is not useful because most users will not master the schema enough to ask the precise questions they could have asked. In this context, I am thinking about topics such as data modeling, schema design, schema summarization, form generation, natural language querying, and analytics with missing data and imprecise queries. I gave a keynote speech at SIGMOD on database usability . My current research is centered around usability of Big Data, particularly when the data involved comes from multiple heterogeneous sources, and has undergone many manipulations. Please see the web page on database usability for more details. This work has been supported in part by NSF grant IIS 0741620, IIS 1017296, and IIS 1250880. A related concern is how to design effective, usable database systems, funded in part by NSF grant SoD 0438909. This work also naturally leads into a study of visual analytics, where we try to help a human find patterns in large complex data sets rather than just use a data mining algorithm, funded in part by NSF grant 0808824. I am part of the database group and was Director of the software systems laboratory for the past several years. I am also affiliated with the bioinformatics program and serve on the executive committee of the Center for Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics. I also served on the steering committee for the interdisciplinary Informatics concentration for undergraduates at the University of Michigan. I have benefitted greatly from my collaborations with researchers in other disciplines in understanding real problems users have with managing data. I have had a number of such collaborations, with researchers in multiple disciplines. My newest collaborations are with the PRISMS center, building a "Materials Commons" repository, and with the Michigan Center for Research in Critical Care. I am among the fifteen top researchers in the database area, according to Microsoft Academic Search. I have an h-index of 69, which means I have 69 papers with at least 69 citations each. Over my lifetime, I have published more papers in VLDB than anyone else. Teaching Courses related to database management, dat analysis, the web, and data structures and algorithms. See details. Bio I obtained my Ph. D. from Stanford in 1985, and worked many years for AT&T, where I eventually headed the database department. I arrived here in the fall of 1999, after a brief detour through the University of Illinois. I have been concerned about how academic scholarship is demonstrated, and have been involved with several efforts in this direction. I established the ACM SIGMOD Digital Review, which provides online reviews of published articles, now migrated to Pubzone. As a complementary effort, I serve as the editor for the database section of the Computing Research Repository (CoRR) , which encourages publication prior to review. I am the founder of the Proceedings of the Very Large Database Endowment (PVLDB), which is an effort to bring journal-style reviewing to a prestigious conference. 
