 Toggle navigation Aditya Parameswaran Home About Recent Selected Projects CV Research Themes Visual Analytics Crowd-Powered Analytics Interactive Analytics Info Extraction and Integration Recommender Systems Publications By Topic By Date Recent Other Info Aditya Parameswaran I am an assistant professor of Computer Science at the University of Illinois (UIUC) . My research interests are broadly in building tools for simplifying data analytics , i.e., empowering individuals and teams to leverage and make sense of their datasets more easily, efficiently, and effectively. Biographical Sketch Aditya Parameswaran is an Assistant Professor in Computer Science at the University of Illinois (UIUC), with affiliate appointments at the Illinois Informatics Institute , the Institute for Genomic Biology and the Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology . He spent a year as a PostDoc at MIT CSAIL following his PhD at Stanford University , before starting at Illinois in August 2014. He develops systems and algorithms for "human-in-the-loop" data analytics, synthesizing techniques from database systems, data mining, and human computation. He has received the Army Research Office Young Investigator Program Award (2018), the NSF CAREER Award (2017), the TCDE Early Career Award (2017), the Dean's Excellence in Research Award (2018) and the C. W. Gear Junior Faculty Award from the University of Illinois (2017), multiple "best" Doctoral Dissertation Awards (from SIGMOD , SIGKDD , and Stanford in 2014), "Excellent" teacher awards from Illinois ( 2015 , 2017 ), a Google faculty award (2015) and focused research award (2017), the Key Scientific Challenges award from Yahoo!, six best-of-conference citations (VLDB 2010, KDD 2012, ICDE 2014, ICDE 2016, AISTATS 2017, VLDB 2017), and a best demo honorable mention (SIGMOD 2017). He is an associate editor of SIGMOD Record , serves on the steering committee of the HILDA (Human-in-the-loop Data Analytics) Workshop @ SIGMOD and the DSIA (Data Systems for Interactive Analysis) Workshop @ VIS, and has served on program committees of various database, data mining, web, systems, and crowdsourcing conferences. His research group is supported with funding from the NSF ( CAREER , Medium , AITF , BigData ), the NIH (2X), the Army Research Office, the Toyota Research Institute, Adobe, the Siebel Energy Institute, and Google. Quick Project Links News December 15, 2018: Congratulations to Doris and gang for our IUI 2019 paper identifying a new fallacy in data exploration--the drill-down fallacy--and developing techniques to work around it. December 1, 2018: Yay! My student Mangesh Bendre (coadvised with Kevin Chang) defended his thesis on DataSpread. Mangesh has spearheaded the development of DataSpread, and was instrumental in many of the key innovations so far: the hybrid data model, positional indexing, and asynchronous formula computation. November 15, 2018: Congrats to Doris and the rest of the Helix team for the VLDB 2019 paper on the design of Helix, our human-in-the-loop machine learning system. August 13, 2018: Congratulations to Silu, Liqi et al. (w/ Aaron Elmore ) for a "best of conference" nomination for our VLDB 2017 paper on our versioned database system Orpheus's design and implementation! August 13, 2018: Doris's IEEE D.E. Bulletin paper articulating our vision for a visual discovery assistant, called VIDA, will be out soon . Thanks to Alexandra for inviting us. August 10, 2018: Shreya's paper on incorporating constraints for more accurate crowd-powered sorting was accepted as a short paper at CIKM 2018. July 11, 2018: Thrilled to receive the Army Research Office Young Investigator Program Award for our work on decoupling perspectives in crowdsourcing. Thanks to the CS Department for the generous article! June 30, 2018: Our SIGMOD blog post on why visual data exploration introduces a number of new data management challenges is up. Thank you to Georgia Koutrika for inviting me! June 15, 2018: Our project page for Helix is up ! June 15, 2018: Short papers accepted at IDEA on iteration in machine learning workflows, and at HCOMP on quality evaluation methods for crowdsourced segmentation. May 27, 2018: I am serving on the steering committee of the DSIA workshop @ VIS 2018. Consider submitting your latest and greatest work here ! May 2, 2018: Demos on Helix, our human-in-the-loop machine learning tool , and ShapeSearch, our flexible shape-based trend-line querying tool, were accepted at VLDB 2018. April 25, 2018: Our paper on Needletail , an efficient sampling engine for browsing, was accepted at the HILDA Workshop at SIGMOD 2018. We've used Needletail in a number of papers on scalable approximate visualization generation, so we're glad to have this finally out there! April 15, 2018: Our paper on accelerating human-in-the-loop ML , a vision paper for the Helix project, was accepted at the DEEM Workshop at SIGMOD 2018. Lots more to come on Helix in the near future. Congrats Doris! April 1, 2018: Thrilled to receive the 2018 Dean's Excellence in Research Award from the University of Illinois, given to assistant professors with an outstanding research profile + impact. Delighted to be able to celebrate with the group (photo on the right)! March 1, 2018: Happy to be recognized with a spot on the "List of teachers rated as Excellent" for the second year in a row! February 15, 2018: Our demo paper (w/ folks at UChicago) on generating succinct diffs between data versions was accepted at SIGMOD 2018. February 10, 2018: Mangesh's paper on data models and indexes for scalable spreadsheets has been accepted to ICDE 2018! This paper lays out the groundwork for our DataSpread project, many years in the making. December 12, 2017: New paper on quickly identifying a succinct difference (or "diff") between two relational datasets here . We characterize the complexity of this problem, based on varying the classes of operators and types of attributes. December 10, 2017: More Kelly news! Kelly received the Snap Research Scholarshop and the CRA Undergraduate research award honorable mention. Woohoo! December 1, 2017: Interested in trying out our latest version of Zenvisage? Here's the link: zenvisage.cs.illinois.edu . More at our Medium blog post . November 18, 2017: Paper studying scalability issues in Microsoft Excel by analyzing a large collection of Reddit posts, accepted at CHI 2018. Congrats Kelly Mack (an amazing achievement for an undergrad)! In other news, Kelly was also nominated for the CRA undergraduate research award. November 10, 2017: Paper on our automatic data lake extraction tool accepted at SIGMOD 2018. Our tool automatically identifies the components corresponding to formatting and filters it out to extract a structured representation, with high accuracies on log files from github. Congrats Yihan and Silu! October 15, 2017: My O'Reilly Blog post on "Enabling Data Science for the Majority" is live ! In here, I articulate that there are 5 BIG challenges in democratizing data science, and describe some of our work as well as some of the other work in this space. Read this if you want to find out what's new and cool in data science research. October 10, 2017: New preprint on characterizing the spectrum of scalability issues in Microsoft Excel via Reddit posts here as part of our DataSpread project. Led by Kelly, our intrepid undergrad! October 1, 2017: The Zenvisage gang chronicle our multi-year effort in participatory design with Zenvisage along with scientists from material science, genetics, and astrophysics is chronicled here . Many interesting insights on how visual exploration systems like Zenvisage can fit into scientific data exploration workflows + many real instances of valuable scientific findings gained from the process! September 11, 2017: Thanks to new funding from the NSF Algorithms in the Field (AitF) program, we can advance scalable visualization by applying sublinear time techniques, along with the super smart theory duo of Ronitt Rubinfeld (MIT) and Ilias Diakonikolas (USC). NSF page here . September 1, 2017: VLDB Blog Posts! Here they are: "Towards Automating Insight", here . "Drawing Conclusions Early with Incvisage", here . "Painless Data Versioning for Collaborative Data Science", here . "Crowdsourcing in Practice: Our Findings", here . August 15, 2017: Grateful to receive the C.W. Gear Junior Faculty Award from the University of Illinois! Thanks to the Department of CS for being such a supportive environment for junior faculty! August 1, 2017: New/Updated preprints: on Needletail, our "any-k" browsing and sampling engine, here . on FastMatch, an algorithm for rapidly matching histograms to a target, applying a variety of systems and algorithmic ideas, here ; a key component of Zenvisage. on DataSpread, studying representation and indexing schemes for spreadsheet data, here . on Catamaran (formerly known as Datamaran), our unsupervised extraction tool for large-scale extraction from data lakes, here . May 18, 2017: The OrpheusDB demo received a best demo honorable mention! Congrats to Liqi + Silu! Missed it at SIGMOD? You can still catch it here: video. May 15, 2017: Paper on IncVisage: our incrementally improving visualization algorithm and interface has been accepted to VLDB'17! Paper here . Joint work with theorists at MIT and Waterloo, and HCI/Viz folks at Illinois. Perhaps the first paper that has theory, DB, and HCI co-authors? (Would love to be corrected if not.) April 15, 2017: Thrilled and honored to receive: The NSF CAREER Award : Abstract here. Excited to pursue the vision of optimizing "open-ended" crowdsourcing! Vision paper from IEEE Data Engg. Bulletin here . The TCDE (Technical Committed on Data Engineering) Early Career Award , awarded for an individual's whole body of work in the first 5 years after the PhD. The award citation: The award is for developing new interactive tools and techniques that expand the reach of data analytics, enabling powerful data-driven discoveries by experts and non-experts alike. April 15, 2017: Orpheus Updates: demo accepted at SIGMOD 2017; paper accepted at VLDB 2017 (no revisions!); open-source release here . April 3, 2017: The New York Times cited Adam Marcus and my book on crowdsourced data management. Article here . April 3, 2017: The HILDA 2017 workshop (co-located with SIGMOD) program is up . March 1, 2017: Manas's TKDE paper on smart drill-down (from the "best of ICDE 2016") was accepted. February 20, 2017: Vision paper on next-gen visualization recommendation systems with Manasi Vartak, Sam et al. is out at SIGMOD Record. Link here . January 30, 2017: My student Silu Huang won the MSR Faculty Fellowship: the first Illinois student since 2011! A great honor! Silu has been recently working on Orpheus . January 30, 2017: Yihan's paper on calibrating classifiers has been accepted as an ORAL presentation at AISTATS'17 ! January 15, 2017: Our paper analyzing a very large log of all tasks from a popular crowdsourcing marketplace has been accepted at VLDB'17 . Learn all about how a marketplace operates, what the distribution of tasks look like, and how the workers behave here . January 10, 2017: Three of our key analytics tools, DataSpread, Zenvisage, and OrpheusDB, are moving out of private betas with a few interested parties to the public, available for easy download and deployment. More details and download links here: http://tiny.cc/three-tools . January 1, 2017: New preprint release on Catamaran (formerly known as Datamaran), our new fully-unsupervised data extraction tool from machine generated data: no examples or supervision needed! Preprint here . More News December 1, 2016: Two new paper updates: Our paper on SlimFast: a data fusion algorithm, spearheaded by Theo Rekatsinas has been accepted at SIGMOD'17! Our vision paper on Open-Ended Crowdsourcing was accepted to appear at the IEEE data engineering bulletin, spearheaded by the amazing Tova Milo. December 1, 2016: I've given a bunch of talks on our three tools for human-in-the-loop data analytics: a distinguished colloquium at Northwestern, a keynote at the Enterprise Intelligence workshop at KDD'16, and BigData events at Illinois and Chicago. Grab the slides here . December 1, 2016: My exceptional PhD student, Silu Huang, was a finalist in the prestigious Microsoft Research PhD fellowship competition, with an in-person interview at MSR HQ -- so proud of her! Fingers crossed for the eventual outcome. November 15, 2016: Many new preprints! Grab 'em while they're hot: From the Zenvisage project: a paper on visualizations that incrementally improve over time, and a paper on our rapid sampling engine for visualizations. From the Orpheus project: a paper describing data models and partitioning schemes for relational dataset versioning. From the Populace project: a paper on consensus-based clustering of unstructured data. From the DataSpread project: a paper evaluating representation schemes and indexing structures for billion cell spreadsheets. November 15, 2016: We delivered our tutorial on crowdsourced data management at HCOMP'16: slides part 1 part 2 . November 1, 2016: Thanks to Adobe for supporting our research efforts! November 1, 2016: New releases for : a paper on the Zenvisage query language, ZQL and our smart-fuse query optimizer, accepted at VLDB'17 here , plus a demonstration paper accepted at CIDR'17 here . October 15, 2016: I am one of the chairs of the Human-in-the-loop Data Analytics (HILDA) Workshop at SIGMOD'17, along with the peerless Joe Hellerstein, from Berkeley, and Carsten Binnig from Brown. Website here . Follow us on twitter . October 1, 2016: My outstanding MS student, Vipul Venkataraman won the Siebel Scholarship: cool cash prize of $20K. Well-deserved! September 15, 2016: Participated in a fun panel on "Will AI eat us all?" with the eminent team of Sunita Sarawagi, Sihem Amer-Yahia, H. Jagadish, and Ihab Ilyas at VLDB'16. Short answer: no. September 1, 2016: Thanks to NSF for funding our work on DataSpread with an NSF BigData grant. Some Illinois press here . September 1, 2016: Participated in an invited workshop on the "Theory and Models for Crowds and Networks" with an eminent team of researchers in Oaxaca, Mexico. I presented a tutorial on the data management community's take on crowdsourcing. Slides here . August 1, 2016: New slick websites for projects: , our spreadsheet-database hybrid: here . , our versioned database system: here . , our visualization recommendation system: here . , our project on optimizing crowdsourcing: here . July 15, 2016: Our new paper on producing intelligent summaries of facets of papers, with Xiang Ren, Tarique Siddiqui, and Jiawei Han has been accepted at CIKM 2016! June 20, 2016: Our paper on data exploration at ICDE 2016 was invited to the TKDE "best of conference" issue, an honor reserved for the top few papers at the conference. Great job Manas! June 15, 2016: After two years of extensive collaborations with folks at the two institutes, I am now an "official" affiliate of the Institute for Genomic Biology , and the Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology . June 1, 2016: Our paper on Squish: a tool for compression of relational datasets was accepted at KDD 2016! Our code is open-source and available on Github . May 1, 2016: New release on our visual data exploration platform zenvisage. Paper here , and website dedicated to Zenvisage here . Contact us if you'd like to test run zenvisage on your datasets! April 15, 2016: We just received a small seed grant from the Siebel Energy Institute to develop Zenvisage in collaboration with battery scientists at Carnegie Mellon! Excited to see what happens next. April 10, 2016: We received a whopping 3X the number of submissions for the undergraduate research contest . Who knows what these young researchers will accomplish next? April 1, 2016: Our paper on Decibel, the storage engine underlying DataHub, was accepted at SIGMOD 2016! March 1, 2016: Thrilled to be among the "List of Teachers Ranked as Excellent by their Students" at Illinois! Happy to see that students enjoy my classes. January 6, 2016: Adam and I are proud to finally release a book on crowdsourced data management, a labor of love under development for two years. The book not only covers the state of the art, but also contains a survey of both industry users of crowdsourcing and managers of crowdsourcing marketplaces. We hope that this book will be the definitive reference for how crowdsourcing is used in practice . Do send us comments! January 1, 2016: Our vision paper on the unsolved challenges in large-scale data crowdsourcing was accepted at TKDE. December 15, 2015: Our paper on interactive exploration using a more expressive drill-down operator was accepted at ICDE 2016 in Finland. November 25, 2015: Some Illinois press on our NSF-funded DataHub grant. Thrilled and honored to be working with the amazing Sam Madden and Amol Deshpande at solving the problems underlying collaborative data analytics. November 15, 2015: Our paper on optimally managing worker and answer quality in crowdsourcing was accepted at SIGMOD 2016. October 1, 2015: We just heard word that NIH has funded our BD2K commons supplement. Looking forward to working with folks at UChicago to improve data publication workflows! September 15, 2015: Student awesomeness: my student Silu Huang won the 3M foundation fellowship , while Tarique Siddiqui won the Siebel Foundation fellowship . September 1, 2015: Thanks to the NSF, we now have funding to support research and development on DataHub via a Medium IIS grant with MIT and UMD! Link to the project page here . August 1, 2015: The full SeeDB paper has been accepted at VLDB 2016 in India! July 1, 2015: Our JellyBean paper on using humans to count objects in images will appear at HCOMP 2015! June 9, 2015: Release of a new preprint on calibrating the output of confidence estimates from classification algorithms, using classical learning theory tools. This is work driven by my awesome student Yihan Gao. June 6, 2015: Our DataHub query language proposal was accepted at TaPP, a focused provenance workshop. June 1, 2015: Final tally for VLDB 2015 -- three papers and three demos on a variety of topics: papers: crowds, visualizations, and versioning; demos: data exploration, Excel-meets-databases, and collaborative data analytics. May 27, 2015: Our paper on versioning principles was accepted at VLDB'15 without any revisions! May 15, 2015: Undergraduate research news: Andrew Kuznetsov, a freshman working in our group won the ISUR undergraduate research prize, and Andrew with two other freshmen -- Andrew Thieck and Radhir Kothuri won the third prize in the Illinois Engineering Open House competition for their crowdsourcing tool. May 12, 2015: Our paper on debiasing was accepted at KDD 2015! April 9, 2015: Our first release of a new project, titled Data-Spread, with my esteemed colleague Kevin Chang and student Mangesh Bendre. Data-Spread is a tool that unifies databases and spreadsheets. You have to see it to believe it! Here is a YouTube video showing Data-Spread in action. Here is our demo paper on Data-Spread. March 10, 2015: Four more new preprints in the last month! These were: our paper on SeeDB for query driven automatic visualization generation; our jellybean paper on counting objects in images; turns out we can do way better than humans or computer vision algorithms ! our paper on debiasing of batches ; crowdsourcing practitioners often use batching to save costs, but this can lead to non-independence: we deal with this issue. our versioning theory paper; to build a solid foundation for our DataHub project, we explored how to trade off storage and retrieval costs. February 9, 2015: Our paper on exploiting correlations to avoid expensive predicate evaluations was accepted at SIGMOD 2015! February 12, 2015: Many thanks to Google for their support via a Google Faculty Research Award! Excited to be building the next generation visualization toolkit. December 10, 2014: Three new preprints in the last month! These were: smart drill-down , our tool for zooming into portions of a dataset quickly; our paper on globally optimal crowdsourcing quality management; and our paper on gathering data using the crowd, exploiting a hierarchy and MABs. November 10, 2014: Three new paper acceptances in the last month! Our Datahub paper was accepted at CIDR; our rapid approximate visualization generation paper was accepted at VLDB; and our paper on generalized confidence intervals for crowdsourced workers was accepted at ICDE! October 10, 2014: Thrilled to be a part of the new NIH BD2K (Big Data 2 Knowledge) center for revolutionizing genomic data analysis. Thank you, NIH, for the support! September 2, 2014: We can finally talk about our exciting new project, titled Datahub (i.e., GitHub for Data) on collaborative data science and version management. The ambitious goal is to eliminate the pain-points of data book-keeping while doing collaborative data science. September 1, 2014: Our paper on pricing for crowdsourcing tasks has been accepted for presentation at VLDB 2015 ! The paper studies a simple, but important problem: if you have a batch of tasks and a deadline, how should you vary price to meet the deadline? August 25, 2014: Pleasantly surprised to be selected as the KDD dissertation award runner-up , having already been given the SIGMOD dissertation award ! Feel truly lucky to have two communities - SIGMOD and KDD - supporting my work! August 24, 2014: Had a blast being a keynote speaker at KDD IDEA 2014 - a big thank you to the organizers for inviting me! If this year was any indication, IDEA is going to flourish as a workshop for many years! August 20, 2014: Our paper on optimally learning maximum-likelihood worker accuracies has been accepted as a work-in-progress paper for HCOMP 2014 ! The paper tackles the problem of worker quality estimation in a way EM-based algorithms cannot - by providing optimality guarantees. August 15, 2014: Started at Illinois ; exciting times ahead! Synergistic Activities I am an Associate Editor for SIGMOD Record , focusing on vision articles. Please consider sending us your most controversial and/or interesting papers! I serve on the steering committees of HILDA (Human-in-the-loop Data Analytics) at SIGMOD and DSIA (Data Systems for Interactive Analysis) at VIS. Lots of excitement around this nascent area at the intersection of databases, data mining, and visualization/HCI -- join us! I've served on the program committees of VLDB, KDD, SIGMOD, WSDM, WWW, SOCC, HCOMP, ICDE, and EDBT, many of them multiple times. I served as an Area Chair for SIGMOD 2017 and as a co-chair for HILDA 2017. I was the SIGMOD 2016 Undergraduate Research Chair. Recent Releases PAPER Helix: Holistic Optimization for Accelerating Iterative Machine Learning . Doris Xin, Stephen Macke, Litian Ma, Jialin Liu, Shuchen Song, Aditya Parameswaran. 45th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Los Angeles, USA. September 2019 PAPER Holistic Crowd-Powered Sorting via AID: Optimizing for Accuracies, Inconsistencies, and Difficulties . Shreya Rajpal and Aditya Parameswaran. 27th International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM) , Lingotto, Italy. October 2018 PRE-PRINT Anti-Freeze for Large and Complex Spreadsheets: Asynchronous Formula Computation . Mangesh Bendre, Tana Wattanawaroon, Kelly Mack, Kevin Chang, Aditya Parameswaran. Technical Report. October 2018 PAPER The Case for a Visual Discovery Assistant: A Holistic Solution for Accelerating Visual Data Exploration . Doris Jung-Lin Lee and Aditya Parameswaran. IEEE Data Engineering Bulletin , Issue on Insights and Explanations in Data Analysis. September 2018 PRE-PRINT Its a grid, its a form, its a spreadsheet!: Revisiting Sensemaking with Spreadsheets for Presentation and Data Analysis . Pingjing Yang, Sajjadur Rahman, Mangesh Bendre, Joon Sung Park, Kevin Chang, Karrie Karahalios, Aditya Parameswaran. Technical Report. September 2018 PAPER Adaptive Sampling for Rapidly Matching Histograms . Stephen Macke, Yiming Zhang, Silu Huang, Aditya Parameswaran. 44th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. September 2018 PAPER ShapeSearch: Flexible Pattern-based Querying of Trend Line Visualizations (Demo) . Tarique Siddiqui, Paul Luh, Zesheng Wang, Karrie Karahalios, Aditya Parameswaran. 44th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. September 2018 PAPER Helix: Accelerating Human-in-the-loop Machine Learning (Demo) . Doris Xin, Litian Ma, Jialin Liu, Stephen Macke, Shuchen Song, Aditya Parameswaran. 44th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. September 2018 PAPER How Developers Iterate on Machine Learning Workflows -- A Survey of the Applied Machine Learning Literature . Doris Xin, Litian Ma, Shuchen Song, Aditya Parameswaran. IDEA Workshop at KDD Int'l Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , London, UK. August 2018 PRE-PRINT Directed Data Management: A New Frontier in Database Usability . Mangesh Bendre, Sajjadur Rahman, Tana Wattanawaroon, Kelly Mack, Yu Lu, Kevin Chang, Karrie Karahalios, Aditya Parameswaran. Technical Report. August 2018 PAPER Quality Evaluation Methods for Crowdsourced Image Segmentation . Doris Jung-Lin Lee, Akash Das Sarma, Aditya Parameswaran. 6th International Conference on Human Computation and Crowdsourcing (HCOMP) , Zurich, Switzerland. July 2018 PAPER Navigating the Data Lake with Datamaran: Automatically Extracting Structure from Log Datasets . Yihan Gao, Silu Huang, Aditya Parameswaran. SIGMOD Int'l Conf. on Management of Data , Houston, USA. June 2018 PAPER Optimally Leveraging Density and Locality to Support LIMIT Queries . Albert Kim, Liqi Xu, Tarique Siddiqui, Silu Huang, Sam Madden, Aditya Parameswaran. HILDA Workshop at SIGMOD Int'l Conf. on Management of Data , Houston, USA. June 2018 PAPER Accelerating Human-in-the-loop Machine Learning: Challenges and Opportunities . Doris Xin, Litian Ma, Jialin Liu, Stephen Macke, Shuchen Song, Aditya Parameswaran. DEEM Workshop at SIGMOD Int'l Conf. on Management of Data , Houston, USA. June 2018 PAPER DataDiff: User-Interpretable Data Transformation Summaries for Collaborative Data Analysis (Demo) . Gunce Yilmaz, Tana Wattanawaroon, Liqi Xu, Abhishek Nigam, Aaron Elmore, Aditya Parameswaran. SIGMOD Int'l Conf. on Management of Data , Houston, USA. June 2018 Medium Blog Selected Projects Zenvisage: A visualization recommendation system Zenvisage is a tool for effortlessly visualizing insights from very large data sets. It automates finding the right visualization for a query, significantly simplifying the laborious task of identifying appropriate visualizations. Project page here . Try it live here ! PAPER The Case for a Visual Discovery Assistant: A Holistic Solution for Accelerating Visual Data Exploration . Doris Jung-Lin Lee and Aditya Parameswaran. IEEE Data Engineering Bulletin , Issue on Insights and Explanations in Data Analysis. September 2018 PAPER Adaptive Sampling for Rapidly Matching Histograms . Stephen Macke, Yiming Zhang, Silu Huang, Aditya Parameswaran. 44th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. September 2018 PAPER ShapeSearch: Flexible Pattern-based Querying of Trend Line Visualizations (Demo) . Tarique Siddiqui, Paul Luh, Zesheng Wang, Karrie Karahalios, Aditya Parameswaran. 44th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. September 2018 PAPER Optimally Leveraging Density and Locality to Support LIMIT Queries . Albert Kim, Liqi Xu, Tarique Siddiqui, Silu Huang, Sam Madden, Aditya Parameswaran. HILDA Workshop at SIGMOD Int'l Conf. on Management of Data , Houston, USA. June 2018 PRE-PRINT You can't always sketch what you want: Understanding Sensemaking in Visual Query Systems . Doris Jung-Lin Lee, John Lee, Tarique Siddiqui, Jaewoo Kim, Karrie Karahalios, Aditya Parameswaran. Technical Report. October 2017 PAPER I've Seen Enough: Incrementally Improving Visualizations to Support Rapid Decision Making . Sajjadur Rahman, Maryam Aliakbarpour, Ha Kyung Kong, Eric Blais, Karrie Karahalios, Aditya Parameswaran, Ronitt Rubinfeld. 43rd International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Munich, Germany. September 2017 PAPER Effortless Visual Data Exploration with Zenvisage: An Interactive and Expressive Visual Analytics System . Tarique Siddiqui, Albert Kim, John Lee, Karrie Karahalios, Aditya Parameswaran. 43rd International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Munich, Germany. September 2017 PAPER Fast-forwarding to Desired Visualizations with Zenvisage . Tarique Siddiqui, John Lee, Albert Kim, Edward Xue, Xiaofo Yu, Sean Zou, Lijin Guo, Changfeng Liu, Chaoran Wang, Karrie Karahalios, Aditya Parameswaran. Conference on Innovative Database Research (CIDR) , Chaminade, USA. January 2017 PAPER Towards Visualization Recommendation Systems . Manasi Vartak, Silu Huang, Tarique Siddiqui, Samuel Madden, and Aditya Parameswaran. SIGMOD Record , Chicago, USA. December 2016 PAPER SeeDB: Efficient Data-Driven Visualization Recommendations to Support Visual Analytics . Manasi Vartak, Sajjadur Rahman, Samuel Madden, Aditya Parameswaran, and Neoklis Polyzotis. 42nd International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , New Delhi, India. September 2016 PAPER Rapid Sampling for Visualizations with Ordering Guarantees . Albert Kim, Eric Blais, Aditya Parameswaran, Piotr Indyk, Samuel Maddem, Ronitt Rubinfeld. 41st International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Kohala Coast, Hawaii, USA. September 2015 PAPER SeeDB: Automatically Generating Query Visualizations (Demo) . Manasi Vartak, Samuel Madden, Aditya Parameswaran, Neoklis Polyzotis. 40th International Conf. on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Hangzhou, China. September 2014 PAPER SeeDB: Visualizing Database Queries Efficiently (Vision Paper) . Aditya Parameswaran, Neoklis Polyzotis, and Hector Garcia-Molina. 40th International Conf. on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Hangzhou, China. September 2014 Helix: An Accelerated Human-in-the-loop Machine Learning System Helix accelerates the iterative development of machine learning pipelines with a human developer "in the loop" via intelligent caching and reuse. Project page here . PAPER Helix: Holistic Optimization for Accelerating Iterative Machine Learning . Doris Xin, Stephen Macke, Litian Ma, Jialin Liu, Shuchen Song, Aditya Parameswaran. 45th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Los Angeles, USA. September 2019 PAPER Helix: Accelerating Human-in-the-loop Machine Learning (Demo) . Doris Xin, Litian Ma, Jialin Liu, Stephen Macke, Shuchen Song, Aditya Parameswaran. 44th International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. September 2018 PAPER How Developers Iterate on Machine Learning Workflows -- A Survey of the Applied Machine Learning Literature . Doris Xin, Litian Ma, Shuchen Song, Aditya Parameswaran. IDEA Workshop at KDD Int'l Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining , London, UK. August 2018 PAPER Accelerating Human-in-the-loop Machine Learning: Challenges and Opportunities . Doris Xin, Litian Ma, Jialin Liu, Stephen Macke, Shuchen Song, Aditya Parameswaran. DEEM Workshop at SIGMOD Int'l Conf. on Management of Data , Houston, USA. June 2018 DataSpread: A Spreadsheet-Database Hybrid DataSpread is a tool that marries the best of databases and spreadsheets. Project page: here PRE-PRINT Anti-Freeze for Large and Complex Spreadsheets: Asynchronous Formula Computation . Mangesh Bendre, Tana Wattanawaroon, Kelly Mack, Kevin Chang, Aditya Parameswaran. Technical Report. October 2018 PRE-PRINT Its a grid, its a form, its a spreadsheet!: Revisiting Sensemaking with Spreadsheets for Presentation and Data Analysis . Pingjing Yang, Sajjadur Rahman, Mangesh Bendre, Joon Sung Park, Kevin Chang, Karrie Karahalios, Aditya Parameswaran. Technical Report. September 2018 PRE-PRINT Directed Data Management: A New Frontier in Database Usability . Mangesh Bendre, Sajjadur Rahman, Tana Wattanawaroon, Kelly Mack, Yu Lu, Kevin Chang, Karrie Karahalios, Aditya Parameswaran. Technical Report. August 2018 PAPER Navigating the Data Lake with Datamaran: Automatically Extracting Structure from Log Datasets . Yihan Gao, Silu Huang, Aditya Parameswaran. SIGMOD Int'l Conf. on Management of Data , Houston, USA. June 2018 PAPER DataDiff: User-Interpretable Data Transformation Summaries for Collaborative Data Analysis (Demo) . Gunce Yilmaz, Tana Wattanawaroon, Liqi Xu, Abhishek Nigam, Aaron Elmore, Aditya Parameswaran. SIGMOD Int'l Conf. on Management of Data , Houston, USA. June 2018 PRE-PRINT Towards Interactive, Navigable, and Expressive Spreadsheets: DataSpread to the Rescue! . Mangesh Bendre, Kelly Mack, Sajjadur Rahman, Tana Wattanawaroon, Yan Liu, Yu Lu, Ping-Jing Yang, Stanford Zhou, Xinyan Zhou, Kevin Chang, Karrie Karahalios, Aditya Parameswaran. Technical Report. May 2018 PAPER Towards a Holistic Integration of Spreadsheets with Databases: A Scalable Storage Engine for Presentational Data Management . Mangesh Bendre, Vipul Venkataraman, Xinyan Zhou, Kevin Chang, Aditya Parameswaran. 34th International Conf. on Data Engineering (ICDE) , Paris, France. April 2018 PAPER Characterizing Scalability Issues in Spreadsheet Software using Online Forums (Case Study Paper) . Kelly Mack, John Lee, Kevin Chang, Karrie Karahalios, Aditya Parameswaran. International Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI) , Montreal, Canada. April 2018 PRE-PRINT Towards a Theory of Data-Diff: Optimal Synthesis of Succinct Data Modification Scripts . Tana Wattanawaroon, Stephen Macke, Aditya Parameswaran. Technical Report. December 2017 PAPER Interactive Data Exploration with Smart Drill-Down . Manas Joglekar, Hector Garcia-Molina, Aditya Parameswaran. 32nd International Conf. on Data Engineering (ICDE) , Helsinki, Finland. May 2016 (Invited to: Special Issue of TKDE Journal for ICDE 2016 Best Papers) PAPER Data-Spread: Unifying Databases and Spreadsheets (Demo) . Mangesh Bendre, Bofan Sun, Xinyan Zhou, Ding Zhang, Shy-Yauer Lin, Kevin Chang, and Aditya Parameswaran. 41st International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Kohala Coast, Hawaii, USA. September 2015 PAPER Smart Drill-down: A New Data Exploration Operator (Demo) . Manas Joglekar, Hector Garcia-Molina, Aditya Parameswaran. 41st International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Kohala Coast, Hawaii, USA. September 2015 Orpheus: Relational Dataset Version Management at Scale DataHub (or "GitHub for Data") is a system that enables collaborative data science by keeping track of large numbers of versions and their dependencies compactly, and allowing users to progressively clean, integrate and visualize their datasets. OrpheusDB is a component of DataHub focused on using a relational database for versioning. Project page: here PAPER DataDiff: User-Interpretable Data Transformation Summaries for Collaborative Data Analysis (Demo) . Gunce Yilmaz, Tana Wattanawaroon, Liqi Xu, Abhishek Nigam, Aaron Elmore, Aditya Parameswaran. SIGMOD Int'l Conf. on Management of Data , Houston, USA. June 2018 PRE-PRINT Towards a Theory of Data-Diff: Optimal Synthesis of Succinct Data Modification Scripts . Tana Wattanawaroon, Stephen Macke, Aditya Parameswaran. Technical Report. December 2017 PAPER OrpheusDB: Bolt-on Versioning for Relational Databases . Silu Huang, Liqi Xu, Jialin Liu, Aaron Elmore, Aditya Parameswaran. 43rd International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Munich, Germany. September 2017 (Invited to: Special Issue of VLDB Journal for VLDB 2017 Best Papers) PAPER OrpheusDB: A Light-weight Approach to Relational Dataset Versioning (Demo) . Liqi Xu, Silu Huang, Sili Hui, Aaron Elmore, Aditya Parameswaran. SIGMOD Int'l Conf. on Management of Data , Chicago, USA. June 2017 (Best Demo Honorable Mention) PAPER Decibel: The Relational Dataset Branching System . Michael Maddox, David Goehring, Aaron Elmore, Sam Madden, Aditya Parameswaran, and Amol Deshpande. 42nd International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , New Delhi, India. September 2016 PAPER Squish: Near-optimal Compression for Archival of Relational Datasets . Yihan Gao, and Aditya Parameswaran. 22nd International Conf. on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD) , San Francisco, USA. August 2016 PAPER Principles of Dataset Versioning: Exploring the Recreation/Storage Tradeoff . Souvik Bhattacherjee, Amit Chavan, Silu Huang, Amol Deshpande, and Aditya Parameswaran. 41st International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Kohala Coast, Hawaii, USA. September 2015 PAPER Collaborative Data Analytics with Datahub (Demo) . Anant Bhardwaj, Amol Deshpande, Aaron Elmore, David Karger, Sam Madden, Aditya Parameswaran, Harihar Subramanyam, Eugene Wu, and Rebecca Zhang. 41st International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Kohala Coast, Hawaii, USA. September 2015 PAPER Towards a Unified Query Language for Provenance and Versioning . Amit Chavan, Silu Huang, Amol Deshpande, Aaron Elmore, Sam Madden, and Aditya Parameswaran. 7th International Workshop on Theory and Practice of Provenance (TaPP) , Edinburgh, Scotland. July 2015 PAPER DataHub: Collaborative Data Science & Dataset Version Management at Scale . Anant Bhardwaj, Souvik Bhattacherjee, Amit Chavan, Amol Deshpande, Aaron J. Elmore, Samuel Madden, Aditya Parameswaran. Conference on Innovative Database Research (CIDR) , Asilomar, USA. January 2015 Populace: A Suite of Crowd-Powered Algorithms Our work has developed a number of algorithms for gathering, processing, and understanding data obtained from humans (or crowds), while minimizing cost, latency, and error. Since 2014, our focus has been on optimizing open-ended crowdsourcing: an understudied and challenging class. Project page: here PAPER Holistic Crowd-Powered Sorting via AID: Optimizing for Accuracies, Inconsistencies, and Difficulties . Shreya Rajpal and Aditya Parameswaran. 27th International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM) , Lingotto, Italy. October 2018 PAPER Quality Evaluation Methods for Crowdsourced Image Segmentation . Doris Jung-Lin Lee, Akash Das Sarma, Aditya Parameswaran. 6th International Conference on Human Computation and Crowdsourcing (HCOMP) , Zurich, Switzerland. July 2018 PAPER Understanding Workers, Developing Effective Tasks, and Enhancing Marketplace Dynamics: A Study of a Large Crowdsourcing Marketplace . Ayush Jain, Akash Das Sarma, Jennifer Widom, Aditya Parameswaran. 43rd International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Munich, Germany. September 2017 PAPER SLiMFast: Guaranteed Results for Data Fusion and Source Reliability . Theo Rekatsinas, Manas Joglekar, Hector Garcia-Molina, Aditya Parameswaran, and Chris Re. SIGMOD Int'l Conf. on Management of Data , Chicago, USA. June 2017 PAPER Optimizing Open-Ended Crowdsourcing: The Next Frontier in Crowdsourced Data Management . Aditya Parameswaran, Akash Das Sarma, Vipul Venkataraman. IEEE Data Engineering Bulletin , Issue on Human-in-the-loop Data Management. December 2016 PRE-PRINT It's a Matter of Perspective(s): Crowd-Powered Consensus Organization of Corpora . Ayush Jain, Karan Goel, Joon Young Seo, Andrew Kuznetsov, Aditya Parameswaran, Hari Sundaram. Technical Report. November 2016 PAPER Towards Globally Optimal Crowdsourcing Quality Management . Akash Das Sarma, Aditya Parameswaran, Jennifer Widom. SIGMOD International Conf. on Management of Data , San Francisco, USA. June 2016 PAPER Challenges in Data Crowdsourcing . Hector Garcia-Molina, Manas Joglekar, Adam Marcus, Aditya Parameswaran, and Vasilis Verios. IEEE TKDE: Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering , (Pages XX-YY). January 2016 PAPER Crowdsourced Data Management: Industry and Academic Perspectives (Book) . Adam Marcus and Aditya Parameswaran. Foundations and Trends in Databases , Vol. 6: No. 1-2, pp 1-161. December 2015 PAPER Surpassing Humans and Computers with JellyBean: Crowd-Vision-Hybrid Image Counting Algorithms . Akash Das Sarma, Ayush Jain, Arnab Nandi, Aditya Parameswaran and Jennifer Widom. 3rd International Conference on Human Computation and Crowdsourcing (HCOMP) , San Diego, USA. November 2015 PAPER Finish Them!: Pricing Algorithms for Human Computation . Yihan Gao, Aditya Parameswaran. 41st International Conference on Very Large Data Bases (VLDB) , Kohala Coast, Hawaii, USA. September 2015 Aditya Parameswaran Assistant Professor Computer Science Department University of Illinois (UIUC) Address: Siebel Center, Room 2114 201 N Goodwin Ave Urbana IL 61801 Twitter: @adityagp Email: adityagp @ illinois.edu | cs.stanford.edu Curriculum Vitae Google Scholar DBLP Page Publications by Topic | Date Dipti Nayak Past/Present Research Themes: Visual Analytics Crowd-Powered Analytics Interactive Analytics Info Integration and Extraction Recommender Systems Teaching: Fall 2014/2015/2017 CS598: Human-in-the-loop Data Management Spring 2016/2017/2018 CS411: Database Systems Spring 2015 CS511: Advanced Database Systems Current Ph.D. Students: Yihan Gao Silu Huang Doris Lee Stephen Macke Sajjadur Rahman Tarique Siddiqui Tana Wattanawaroon Doris Xin Liqi Xu Graduated Ph.D. Students: Akash Das Sarma (Research Scientist, Facebook), 2017 Mangesh Bendre (coadvised, Research Scientist, Visa Research), 2018 Tweets by @adityagp Aditya Parameswaran, designed in 2014 with bootstrap 
