 Yoav Freund's home page General Information My main area of research is computational learning theory and the related areas in probability theory, information theory, statistics and pattern recognition. I work on applications of machine learning algorithms in big data, computer vision, human computer interaction and online education. Prospective Students If you are a masters or undergrad student and you are interested in doing a project in data analysis, please consult the Matchpoint Page If you are interested in applying to be a PhD. student. I am looking for students with a strong background in math/physics/signal processing/statistics that are interested in big data analysis and in programming. Please email me the list of relevant courses and your grades in them. If you have completed an original data analysis project, send me the link to the github repository. In the title to the email write "application for a data science PhD." Publications Courses CSE254: Machine Learning: Intrinsic dimension and Dimension reduction Winter 2019 CSE103: Practical introduction to probability and statistics . Fall 2018 CSE255: Big Data Analytics using Spark Spring 2018 CSE254: Online Learning - Theory and Applications Winter 2018 CSE254: Queuing Theory Winter 2016 CSE101: Algorithms fall 2010. CSE291: Machine Perception using FPGAs fall 2009. Statistical Machine Learning (Boosting) Winter 2009. Discriminative Learning given winter quarter 2008. Seminar on Active Learning and Sequential Experimental Design Fall 2006. Online Learning given winter quarter 2006. Lessons materials Current PhD. Students Yuncong Chen Julaiti Alafate Former PhD. Students Akshay Balsubramany German Creamer Eugene Ie William Beaver Evan Ettinger Mayank Kabra Matt Jacobsen Sunsern Cheamanunkul Matt Elkherj Programs and Servers Automatic CameraMan Software for RP-trees JBoost a Java implementation of Adaboost and other boosting-based learning algorithms. Matthew Elliot's new implementation of the mind reading machine . Now it can also run in the brwoser on your smartphone! An applet demonstrating adaboost. Fun Stuff nerd wisdom a cool blog for nerds Talks Is consciousness important for artificial intelligence? My FaceBook Page Share this page on facebook: Share Wiki Page The Twiki page has been retired. You can still access it here but it cannot be edited. Instead of twiki we started a MediaWiki . You'll need to request an account to use it. The default is that unregistered users can view, but not edit, any page on the wiki. Registered people can, by default, edit any page. However, using the appropriate flags, any user or group of users can be restricted from reading or from writing any page. More information on how to use the wiki is available from the main page. MediaWiki Main Page . Machine Learning Resources The official COLT web page www.learningtheory.org An archive for the 1999 workshop on Online Decision Algorithms email: yfreund@ucsd.edu phone: (858) 534-1668 Availability calendar If we agreed to meet, please suggest 2-3 time slots that would work for both of us. Address: Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Room 4126 University of California, San Diego 9500 Gilman Drive, Mail Code 0404 La Jolla, CA 92093-0404 USA View Larger Map Updated: 1/27/2016 
