 William G. Griswold Department of Computer Science & Engineering University of California, San Diego La Jolla, CA 92093-0404 Office: 3118 EBU3b FedEx: EBU3b building, 2nd floor, room 2272 Phone: +1 (858) 534-6898 Email: Fax: +1 (858) 534-7029 Calendar | Blog Publications UCSD Design Lab CitiSense - Adaptive Services for Community-Driven Behavioral and Environmental Monitoring UCSD ActiveCampus (archive) WIISARD SAGE - Scalable Wireless Internet Information System for Response in Disasters . Check out Reality Flythrough ! Ubiquitous Presenter - Classroom Technology for Participatory Learning . The Software Evolution Lab Software tools for download Aspect Browser for Eclipse Daikon Invariant Detector (with MIT/UW) My students , past and present Favorite readings in software Programming Systems Group Class and Project Links CSE 110 Software Engineering CSE 210 Principles of Software Engineering (Fall) CSE 218: Methods and Tools for Software Modularity (Winter) Stuff about me My CV (Curriculum Vitae) Atticus Joseph Edward Griswold Hannah Con Feeley Griswold My father was a pioneering computer scientist, a designer of the Snobol and Icon programming languages. Here is an online discussion of his life's work. The San Diego Wine Dilettante (that's me) [on hiatus] Aikido at UCSD and our associated Dojos, Aikido of Mission Valley and Sunset Cliffs Aikido Madge T. Griswold's genealogy site , archived from grayforest.com Musings and Advice Considering Grad school? How to read an engineering research paper Ivan Sutherland on Technology and Courage . Paul Krugman on The Wonders of Technology . I'm fascinated by the challenges of constructing large, complex software systems software engineering. I'm especially interested in the evolution (e.g., enhancement) of large software systems , which is driven by unpredictable market forces, including the creative spark of innovation and the user's appetite for leading-edge functionality. My research in this area largely comprises two topics, infrastructure for ubiquitous computing and the invention of new programming tools , most recently in the area of aspect-oriented software development . The latter is often aided the application of leading-edge compiler technology . My ubicomp work can be found at activecampus.ucsd.edu . I also have an active educational technology program supported by my ubicomp and SE work. Check out the UCSD Software Evolution Lab's page for my projects on tool-assisted program restructuring, visualization of latent program structure, software architecture for evolving systems, and whole-program analysis techniques for program understanding and restructuring. I am a proponent of active learning. I work on technology to support active learning and am also a TIES advisor for the St. Pauls Digital Nursing project. Check out the NSF's 1998 Boyer Report . I favor interdisciplinary collaboration, and am a participant in Cal-(IT) 2 , a UCSD/UCI institute supporting collaborative research in information and telelcommunications technology. My students , past and present, are the core of my community. Darren Atkinson is now at Santa Clara University. Here is a family tree of computer science . You'll find us under Djikstra. My PhD advisor was David Notkin at the University of Washington. Several of his former students, Kevin Sullivan , Gail Murphy , and Michael Ernst , are close colleagues of mine. There are a lot of UW folks at UCSD , too. "The will to succeed is nothing without the will to prepare." -- Addidas sport shoe advertisement "Leap and the net will appear." -- John Burroughs "Life is an experiment, not a test." "Chance favors the prepared mind." -- Louis Pasteur "I'm a great believer in luck, and I find the harder I work the more I have of it." -- Thomas Jefferson "The difference in winning & losing is most often, not quitting." -- Walt Disney "Never tell people how to do things. Tell them what to do and they will surprise you with their ingenuity." -- George S. Patton "Tell me, and I will forget. Show me, and I may remember. Involve me, and I will understand." -- Confucious, 450BC "We cannot solve our problems with the same thinking we used to create them." -- Albert Einstein "War is horrifyingly and depressingly archaic." -- Clint Eastwood The Art of Peace begins with you. Work on yourself and your appointed task in the Art of Peace. Everyone has a spirit that can be refined, a body that can be trained in some manner, a suitable path to follow. You are here to realize your inner divinity and manifest your innate enlightenment. Foster peace in your own life and then apply the Art to all that you encounter -- Morihei Ueshiba, founder of Aikido 
