 Rajesh K. Gupta Professor and Qualcomm Endowed Chair Department of Computer Science and Engineering University of California, San Diego EBU3B Room 2120, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093-0404 (858) 822-4391 rgupta at ucsd.edu Contact Info at UCSD. Assistant: Alice Carr (858) 534-5151 apcarr at ucsd.edu Home and Teaching Home and Teaching | Extended Bio | Research and Service About Rajesh Rajesh Gupta is a professor and holder of the QUALCOMM endowed chair in Embedded Microsystems in the Department of Computer Science & Engineering at UC San Diego, California. He leads the Microelectronic Embedded Systems Lab and is head of the Embedded Systems Group at UCSD. Rajesh did his undergraduate education at IIT-Kanpur and his graduate education at UC Berkeley and Stanford. He currently serves as an advisor to Tallwood Venture Capital, RealIntent, Calypto and Packet Digital Corporation. [Extended Bio] What's New You are unlikely to find anything new here since this page is rarely updated. There are some links however that can lead you to more recent stuff. A good place to start is MESL website . Links and Archival Links: Link to opinion pieces. August 2016: A retrospective on being chair. November 10, 2015: If you are a CS department chair (or chief of a school/college), you may be looking for a survey in progress. You can fill it here if you are interested in seeing results. They are already very interesting, and more so if you look at the raw data. Director, Variability Expeditions: Website, Wiki Chair, CSE: Wiki Associate Director, Calit2: SCALES Lab, Calit2*Life IEEE CEDA: CEDA IEEE ESL Other wikis I maintain (most not public, but listed here for those looking for these links) Carmel Valley Middle School Science Olympiad IEEE Design and Test of Computers (transition to CEDA) Emerging Technologies and Startup Ecosystem CVMS ComputeThis CANDE.net News Items: It is better to simply Google it . Be aware, my name is very common. 8/27/10: Variability Expedition is announced as part of NSF Expeditions Program. 11/13/09: Looks like Yuvraj keeps getting press coverage. Got Slashdotted again and featured in MIT Technology Review blog. 1/18/2017: If you are an entering MS student who is looking to work with our group, please see current PhD students in the group for potential match with any of the half a dozen projects we have defined. Financial support is available but will be committed based on evidence of commitment and progress. Diversions Here is the biggest and fastest chip of its times, a " mainframe on a chip "! Ah the good old days! If you recognize any faces, drop me a line. My bookmarks PowerPoint is Evil! PowerPoint makes you dumb! In defense of PowerPoint. Related. Plain English Campaign Avoid weasel words Link to Electronic Journal of Vedic Studies Happy new year! So you think we are still in Kaliyug? Some interesting nuggets from Vedic mathematics. Keep looking up! Sky tonight. 
