Russell Impagliazzo Department of Computer Science and Engineering Temp link University of California, San Diego La Jolla, CA 92093-0114 Office: 4248 Computer Science Building Phone: (858) 534-1332; Fax: (858) 534-7029; Email: russell@cs.ucsd.edu I am a professor specializing in computational complexity theory. My research is in proof complexity, the theory of cryptography, computational randomness, structural complexity, and trying to analyze optimization heuristics and other approaches to solving hard problems. I am back from my leave at IAS, and am interested in advising students, so please come by and talk. Courses for Winter, 2019 CSE 200: Computability and Complexity A web-site for a class I taught at Berkeley as part of the Simons Institute program on Fine-Grained Complexity and Algorithms FGCA My Ph.D. thesis: Pseudo-random generators for cryptography and for randomized algorithms Ted Carson's thesis: Empirical and Analytic Approaches to Understanding Local Search Heuristics Some research papers: S. Arora, R. Impagliazzo, U. V. Vazirani, Relativizing versus Nonrelativizing Techniques: the Role of Local Checkability. Note: This paper is unpublished because it is controversial. The first single-authored version was written in 1988, and a version with the current name and authors dates to 1991. However, the authors make updates every few years, before putting it aside again. M. Agrawal, E. Allender, R. Impagliazzo, T. Pitassi, and S. Rudich Reducing the Complexity of Reductions M. Alekhnovich, A. Borodin, J. Buresh-Oppenheim, R. Impagliazzo, A. Magen, and T.Pitassi, Toward a Model for Backtracking and Dynamic Programming Boaz Barak, Oded Goldreich, R. Impagliazzo, Steven Rudich, Amit Sahai, Salil Vadhan, and Ke Yang, On the (Im)possibility of obfuscating programs Boaz Barak, R. Impagliazzo, and Avi Wigderson , Extracting randomness using few independent sources Paul Beame S. Cook, Jeff Edmonds , R. Impagliazzo, and T. Pitassi, The Relative Complexity of NP Search Problems Paul Beame R. Impagliazzo, J. Krajicek T. Pitassi, and P. Pudlak , Lower Bounds for Hilbert's Nullstellensatz and Propositional Proofs Paul Beame R. Impagliazzo, and T. Pitassi, Improved depth lower bounds for small distance connectivity Paul Beame R. Impagliazzo, T. Pitassi, and N. Segerlind , DPLL and Memoization: Formula Caching Proof Systems Paul Beame , R. Impagliazzo, J. Krajicek T. Pitassi, and P. Pudlak Lower bounds on Hilbert's Nullstellensatz and propositional proofs. M. Bellare, and R. Impagliazzo, A tool for obtaining tighter security analyses of pseudorandom function based constructions, with applications to PRP to PRF conversion M. Bellare, R. Impagliazzo, and M. Naor Does parallel repetition decrease error probability in computationally sound proofs? E. Ben-Sasson and R. Impagliazzo, Random CNF's are hard for the polynomial calculus E. Ben-Sasson R. Impagliazzo, and A. Wigderson Near-optimal separation of tree-like and general resolution J. Buresh-Oppenheim, M. Clegg, R. Impagliazzo, and T. Pitassi, Homogenization and the Polynomial Calculus T. Carson and R. Impagliazzo, Hill-climbing finds random planted bisections T. Carson and R. Impagliazzo, Experimentally Determining Regions of Related Solutions in Graph Bisection Problems A. Clementi and R. Impagliazzo, The reachability problem for finite cellular automata M. Clegg, Jeff Edmonds and R. Impagliazzo, Using the Groebner Basis Algorithm to find Proofs of Unsatisfiability S. Davis and R. Impagliazzo, Models of Greedy Algorithms for Graph Problems T. Dimitriou and R. Impagliazzo, Towards an Analysis of Local Optimization Heuristics T. Dimitriou and R. Impagliazzo, Go-with-the-winners For Graph Bisections Jeff Edmonds R. Impagliazzo, S. Rudich and Jiri Sgall Communication complexity towards lower bounds on circuit depth L. Fortnow, R. Impagliazzo, V. Kabanets, and C. Umans, On the Complexity of Succinct Zero-Sum Games A. Gupta and R. Impagliazzo, Computing Planar Intertwines Johan Hstad R. Impagliazzo, L. Levin, and Michael Luby Construction of a pseudo-random generator from any one-way function. R. Impagliazzo, A Personal View of Average-Case Complexity R. Impagliazzo, Hardness as Randomness: A Survey of Universal Derandomization R. Impagliazzo, Computational Complexity Since 1980 (Invited talk at FSTTCS 2005) R. Impagliazzo, Hardcore Distributions for Somewhat Hard Problems R. Impagliazzo, R. Jaiswal, unpublished. abstract metropolis analysis R. Impagliazzo, R. Jaiswal, V. Kabanets, A. Widgerson, Uniform Direct Product Theorems: Simplified, Optimized, and Derandomized (SIAM Journal of Computing version) R. Impagliazzo, V. Kabanets, A. Kolokolova, An Axiomatic Approach to Algebrization R. Impagliazzo, V. Kabanets and A. Wigderson, Searching for an easy witness: derandomization and circuit complexity R. Impagliazzo and M. Naor , Efficient cryptographic schemes provably as secure as subset sum. R. Impagliazzo and N. Nisan The effects of random restiction on Boolean formulas. R. Impagliazzo, R. Paturi Complexity of k-SAT R. Impagliazzo, R. Paturi and M. Saks. Size-depth trade-offs for threshold Circuits. R. Impagliazzo, R. Paturi, and F. Zane Which Problems Have Strongly Exponential Complexity? R. Impagliazzo, T. Pitassi, and A. Urqhart. Upper and lower bounds on tree-like cutting planes proofs. R. Impagliazzo, N. Nisan and A. Wigderson Pseudorandomness for network algorithms R. Impagliazzo, P. Pudlak and Jiri Sgall Lower Bounds for the Polynomial Calculus and for the Groebner Basis Algorithm R. Impagliazzo and S. Rudich , Limits on the Provable Consequences of One-Way Permutations R. Impagliazzo, R. Shaltiel and A. Wigderson Near-Optimal conversion of Hardness into Pseudo-Randomness R. Impagliazzo and A. Wigderson P=BPP unless E has sub-exponential circuits: De-randomizing the XOR Lemma R. Impagliazzo and A. Wigderson Randomness vs. Time: De-randomization under a uniform assumption V. Kabanets and R. Impagliazzo, Derandomizing Polynomial Identity Tests Means Proving Circuit Lower Bounds T. Pitassi, Paul Beame , and R. Impagliazzo, Exponential lower bounds for constant depth Frege proofs of the pigeonhole principle. P. Pudlak and R. Impagliazzo A lower bound for DLL algorithms for k-SAT N. Segerlind , S. Buss and R. Impagliazzo, A switching lemma for small restrictions and k-DNF resolution 
