 UC San Diego Office of the Chancellor UC San Diego Menu Site navigation Home About the Chancellor Letters from the Chancellor Blog Speeches & Videos Biography & Photos Past UC San Diego Chancellors About the Office Role of the Chancellor Chancellors Guild Chancellors Medal Revelle Medal Cabinet Community Chancellor's CAB Message from Chair YenTu Community Partners Contact Us Event Request Form Meeting Request Form Student Walk-ins Faculty Walk-ins Staff Walk-ins Anonymous Message Chancellor Requests for Meetings and Events Search Chancellor Chancellor UC San Diego People Go Go Go UC San Diego Tritons are courageous, curious and driven. We take risks, push the frontiers of knowledge and challenge conventional thinking. We break thingsnot with abandon, but with convictionbecause we know we can make them better. Gilman Bridge Opens February 12, 2019 On Feb. 7, several hundred attendees joined UC San Diegos Gilman Bridge Ribbon Cutting and Community Celebration, led by Chancellor Pradeep K. Khosla. Now open, the much-anticipated bridge unites Gilman Drive on the west and Medical Center Drive on the east, alleviating local street traffic and creating a more accessible campus. This has been a dream in the making, long before I got here, said Chancellor Khosla at the event. I am so glad that I am the fortunate chancellor to make this dream into a reality. Keep Reading More from Chancellor Khosla News Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright to Serve as UC San Diego Commencement Speaker Obituary Notice: Walter Munk, World-Renowned Oceanographer, Revered Scientist Campus Celebrates Gilman Bridge Opening UC San Diegos LGBT Resource Center Celebrates 20 Years Events Feb 10 Whale Fest at Birch Aquarium Winter is the peak time to see migrating Gray Whales in Southern California. Feb 12 Grad Slam UC San Diego graduate students present their research in under three minutes in a speaking competition. Site Navigation (mobile) Home About the Chancellor Letters from the Chancellor Blog Speeches & Videos Biography & Photos Past UC San Diego Chancellors About the Office Role of the Chancellor Chancellors Guild Chancellors Medal Revelle Medal Cabinet Community Chancellor's CAB Message from Chair YenTu Community Partners Contact Us Event Request Form Meeting Request Form Student Walk-ins Faculty Walk-ins Staff Walk-ins Anonymous Message Important Links Emergency Status Disability Resources Principles of Community Diversity Matters Stay Connected UC San Diego 9500 Gilman Dr., La Jolla, CA 92093 (858) 534-2230 Copyright 2011 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. Terms Feedback Divisions and schools Arts & Humanities Biological Sciences Jacobs School of Engineering Physical Sciences Rady School of Management School of International Relations and Pacific Studies School of Medicine Scripps Institution of Oceanography Skaggs School of Pharmacy & Pharmaceutical Sciences Social Sciences Other university sites Athletics Diversity Student Health Services Maps Libraries Health System Extension Preuss School 
