 Danai Koutra - Assistant Professor Bio CV (pdf) Publications Teaching Lab Danai Koutra pronounced: dah-nye Assistant Professor Computer Science & Engineering University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 3633 Bob and Betty Beyster bldg E-mail: dkoutra@umich.edu Work: (+1) 734-764-4237 I am interested in mathematically formulating interesting problems for exploring large-scale networks, and solving them with fast, scalable and principled methods. My research contributes graph-theoretical ideas and models for exploring a single graph (e.g., graph summarization, inference), as well as multiple graphs simultaneously (e.g., methods for temporal graphs or longitudinal data, similarity and alignment). Real applications of my work include exploration of scientific data, anomaly detection, and re-identification. Research Interests: large-scale graph mining, mining scientific data, graph similarity, graph matching, graph summarization and visualization, graph anomaly and event detection, data mining, applied machine learning For current projects, visit the GEMS Lab webpage! Advising: The GEMS Lab is recruiting motivated and hard-working students interested in graph mining, and large-scale data analytics. If you are interested in joining the group as a PhD student and you are not already at the University of Michigan, please apply to CSE (deadline in December). If you are an undergrad or grad student at UM, and you are interested in any of the papers or projects listed on this page, send an email with your interests and CV to gemslab-opportunities@umich.edu. News [top] January 2019: Received an Amazon research award for "Adaptive Personalized Knowledge Graph Summarization". The project is in collaboration with Davide Mottin. Thanks Amazon! December 2018: Our paper on coupled clustering of time-series and networks, which is motivated by the problem of human-trafficking, is accepted at SDM! December 2018: Received an MCubed award for "Crowdsourcing Adaptive Video Analysis" with Walter Lasecki and Srinivasaraghavan Sriram! December 2018: Invited to server as a demo co-chair for ACM CIKM'19. December 2018: Yujun and Marlena are selected to attend CRA-W Grad Cohort '19! November 2018: Invited to serve as a tutorial co-chair for ACM KDD'19. November 2018: I am a guest editor for the "Applied Network Science Special Issue on Machine Learning with Graphs", along with Austin Benson, Ciro Cattuto, Shobeir Fakhraei, Vagelis Papalexakis, and Jiliang Tang. Looking forward to receiving your submissions! September 2018: Organizing the 4th Explore Graduate Studies in CSE. One hundred students from around the country will get a chance to learn more about the graduate application process and receive 1-1 feedback. Thank you to all the faculty and student volunteers, alumni and amazing UM staff, without whom organizing this event would not have been possible! Also, special thanks to Rackham Graduate School, the College of Engineering and CSE for funding the event! August 2018: Our paper on graph alignment based on representation learning is accepted at CIKM! Congratulations to Mark, Haoming, and Tara! August 2018: Along with Jilles Vreeken and Francesco Bonchi, I will be presenting our tutorial on "Summarizing Graphs at Multiple Scales: New Trends" at ICDM 2018 (Singapore)! July 2018: Awarded an Army Research Office Young Investigator Award! The project focuses on speeding up the computation of linear-system-based graph methods in distributed and multiquery settings. June 2018: Gave talks at Amazon and Google AI, and visited Facebook in the Bay Area. Thanks to my hosts, Christos Faloutsos, Dana Movshovitz-Attias, and Aude Hofleitner! June 2018: Gave a talk on multi-source analysis and had fun participating in working groups at Dagstuhl Seminar,"High-Performance Graph Algorithms"! Thanks for the invitation! May 2018: Our paper on career transitions in computing research is accepted at KDD! Congratulations to Tara and Maryam! Apr 2018: Awarded an Adobe Digital Experience Research award. Thanks Adobe! Apr 2018: Tara was selected for a prestigious NSF graduate research fellowship. Congratulations! Go GEMS, go blue! Apr 2018: Tara was selected to attend CRA-W Grad Cohort '18! Apr 2018: Our paper "Biogeography and environmental conditions shape bacteriophage-bacteria networks across the human microbiome" was accepted in PLOS Computational Biology. Mar 2018: Co-organizing the 14th MLG workshop (Mining and Learning with Graphs), which is held in conjunction with KDD on August 20th. The deadline for paper submissions is May 8th. Looking forward to receiving your papers! Mar 2018: Our paper "GeoAlign: Interpolating Aggregates over Unaligned Partitions" received the best paper runner-up award at EDBT. Congratulations Jie! Feb 2018: Our survey on graph summarization was accepted at ACM Computing Surveys! Congratulations to Yike, Tara and Abhilash! Feb 2018: Our paper on a unifying approach towards summarizing large graphs was accepted at the Social Networks Analysis and Mining (SNAM) journal. Congratulations to Yike and Tara! Jan 2018: Our paper on Hash-based Multiple Graph Alignment was accepted at the Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (PAKDD). Congratulations to Mark, Wei, Shengjie and Kuan-Yu! Dec 2017: Our paper on Flow-based Random Walk with Restart in a Multi-query Setting was accepted at SIAM International Conference on Data Mining (SDM). Congratulations to Yujun for her first-author paper, and Mark and Di for contributing to this work! Dec 2017: Elected as the Program Director of the SIAG on Data Mining and Analytics. Dec 2017: Invited to serve as a demo co-chair for ICDM 2018. Nov 2017: One paper on fusion of multiple geographic data sources accepted at EDBT. Congratulations Jie! Nov 2017: Invited to serve as an Associate Editor of ACM Transactions on Knowledge Discovery from Data (TKDD). Nov 2017: Our paper on hashing-based network discovery was selected as one of the best papers of ICDM'17 (invited for potential publication at the KAIS Journal, Springer)! Congratulations to my student Tara! Nov 2017: I'm on Amazon.com! Well, my work is. My book on Individual and Collective Graph Mining: Principles, Algorithms, and Applications is published! Nov 2017: Attending ICDM! I'm co-organizing and running the ICDM PhD Forum. I'm also a keynote speaker at the ICDM workshop on High Performance Graph Data Mining and Machine Learning (HPGDML)", New Orleans, LA. October 2017: Talk at NSF- FAST Workshop 2017: Machine Learning for Discovery Sciences, Yerevan, Armenia. August 2017: NSF EAGER with Hanghang Tong on Correspondence Discovery in Disparate Networks. Thank you NSF! August 2017: Trove.AI grant for Making Sense of Communication-based Social Graphs. Thank you Trove.AI! August 2017: Two regular papers accepted at ICDM (one on domain-specific exploratory analysis of graphs and one on hashing-based network discovery)! Congratulations to my students Di and Tara for their first-author papers! July 2017: Microsoft Azure Research Award to work on "Interactive and Collective Exploration of Large-scale Graphs". Thanks Microsoft! July 2017: Attended the Microsoft Research Faculty Summit -- The Edge of AI! June 2017: Invited to serve as an ICDM PhD Forum 2017 co-chair. Encourage your students to submit part of their dissertation work by August 18! May 2017: Congratulations to Tara Safavi for winning a Women Techmakers Scholarship (formerly Google Anita Borg Memorial Scholarship)! Tara will be joining GEMS Lab as a PhD students in Fall '17. April 2017: Slides on graph summarization available here! Learn about this space and consider contributing! Thanks to everyone who stayed until the very end of SDM to attend the tutorial! =) April 2017: Talk on efficient inference of networks from time series data at NetInf '17!. Nov 2016: Tutorial on ``Summarizing Large-Scale Graph Data: Algorithms, Applications and Open Challenges'' accepted at SDM 2017! Nov 2016: We are accepting proposals for the KDD CUP 2017! The deadline is on December 9. Nov 2016: Giving a talk on summarizing networks at the the Hasso Plattner Institute in Berlin. Oct 2016: Thank you Intel for the server donation! Aug 2016: Won the 2016 ACM SIGKDD Dissertation Award! My dissertation (and the full abstract) is available here. Aug 2016: Invited panelist for the workshop Explore Graduate Studies in Computer Science and Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor (October 8). Apply by September 9! Aug 2016: Two papers accepted at the 12th MLG workshop (at KDD)! Apr 2016: Invited to serve as KDD Cup 2017 co-chair. We are looking for cool and innovative proposals! :) Apr 2016: Invited to serve as SIAM SDM 2017 publicity co-chair. Consider submitting papers, and workshop / tutorial proposals! Mar 2016: Co-organizing the 12th MLG workshop (Mining and Learning with Graphs), which is held in conjunction with KDD on August 14th. The deadline for paper submissions is May 27th. Mar 2016: Invited talk at the Origins and Future of Pattern Processing and Intelligence: From Brains to Machines Workshop, which is part of the ASU Origins Project. ---------------------------------------- Dec 2015: Elected as secretary of the SIAM Activity Group on Data Mining and Analytics! Oct 2015: Received an honorable mention for the SCS Doctoral Dissertation Award, and nominated to ACM for the Doctoral Dissertation Award! Aug 2015: Talk at the University of Michigan for visitors from the Qatar Computing Research Institute. May 2015: Presenting our paper on controversies and information seeking at WWW! May 2015: Our paper on temporal graph summarization was accepted at KDD! Feb - May 2015: Invited talks. Jan 2015: Visiting the Saarland University and giving a talk on understan-ding large graphs. ---------------------------------------- Dec 2014: Uploaded the slides for our ICDM tutorial here. Dec 2014: Giving a tutorial on node and graph similarity at ICDM'14 @ Shenzen, China (with Tina Eliassi-Rad and Christos Faloutsos). Nov 2014: Invited to attend the Rising Stars in EECS Workshop @ UC Berkeley. Oct 2014: In Hawaii, to advertize Glance and explore UIST'14. Sept 2014: Selected to attend the 2nd Heidelberg Laureate Forum in Germany. Sept 2014: Invited talk at MLconf, in Atlanta. Aug 2014: at KDD, New York. May 2014: Events and Controversies in the news (MIT Technology Review, Technology.org)! Publications [top] Books Danai Koutra, Christos Faloutsos. Individual and Collective Graph Mining: Principles, Algorithms, and Applications. Synthesis Lectures on Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, October 2017, 206 pages. Morgan & Claypool publishers. Conferences and Journals [DBLP] [Google Scholar] Yike Liu, Linhong Zhu, Pedro Szekely, Aram Galstyan, Danai Koutra. Coupled Clustering of Time-Series and Networks. SIAM International Conference on Data Mining (SDM), 9 pages (+4 pages supplementary material), May 2019. (acceptance rate 22.7%) Mark Heimann, Haoming Shen, Tara Safavi, Danai Koutra. REGAL: Representation Learning-based Graph Alignment. ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM), October 2018 (acceptance rate 17%). Tara Safavi, Chandra Sripada, Danai Koutra. Fast Network Discovery on Sequence Data via Time-Aware Hashing. Knowledge and Information Systems (KAIS), August 2018. (accepted with minor revisions) Oshini Goonetilleke, Kewen Liao, Danai Koutra, and Timos Sellis. On effective and efficient graph edge labeling. Distributed and Parallel Databases, 1-34 (to appear), 2018. Pin-Yu Chen, Chun-Chen Tu, Pai-Shun Ting, Ya-Yun Lo, Danai Koutra, Alfred O. Hero III. Identifying Influential Links for Event Propagation on Twitter: A Network of Networks Approach. IEEE Transactions on Signal and Information Processing over Networks (T-SIPN), July 2018. Saba Al-Sayouri, Ekta Gujral, Danai Koutra, Evangelos Papalexakis, Sarah Liam. t-PNE: Tensor-based Predictable Node Embeddings. ACM/IEEE ASONAM, August 2018 (acceptance rate 16%). Tara Safavi, Maryam Davoodi, Danai Koutra. Career Transitions and Trajectories: A Case Study in Computing. ACM SIGKDD, August 2018 (acceptance rate 22.5%). Also accepted for oral presentation at the 5th SIGKDD Workshop on Big Scholarly Data. Geoffrey D. Hannigan, Melissa B. Duhaime, Danai Koutra, Patrick D. Schloss. Biogeography & environmental conditions shape bacteriophage-bacteria networks across the human microbiome. PLOS Computational Biology, April 2018. Yike Liu, Tara Safavi, Abhilash Dighe, Danai Koutra. Graph Summarization Methods and Applications: A Survey. ACM Computing Surveys, February 2018. Yike Liu, Tara Safavi, Neil Shah, Danai Koutra. Reducing Large Graphs to Small Supergraphs: A Unified Approach. Social Network Analysis and Mining Journal, Springer, Februay 2018. Mark Heimann, Wei Lee, Shengjie Pan, Kuan-Yu Chen, Danai Koutra. HashAlign: Hash-based Alignment of Multiple Graphs. PAKDD, 2018 (acceptance rate 18%). [code] Yujun Yan, Mark Heimann, Di Jin, Danai Koutra. Fast Flow-based Random Walk with Restart in a Multi-query Setting. SIAM SDM, 2018. Jie Song, Danai Koutra, Murali Mani, H.V. Jagadish. GeoAlign: Interpolating Aggregates over Unaligned Partitions. EDBT/ICDT, 2018 (regular paper). Best paper runner-up award Tara Safavi, Chandra Sripada and Danai Koutra. Scalable Hashing-Based Network Discovery. IEEE ICDM, 2017 (long paper, acceptance rate 9%). Selected as one of the best papers of ICDM'17. Invited for potential publication at the KAIS Journal, Springer. [code] [slides] Di Jin and Danai Koutra. Exploratory Analysis of Graph Data by Leveraging Domain Knowledge. IEEE ICDM, 2017 (long paper, acceptance rate 9%). [code] Neil Shah, Danai Koutra, Lisa Jin, Tianmin Zou, Brian Gallagher, Christos Faloutsos. On Summarizing Large-Scale Dynamic Graphs. Data Engineering Bulletin, September 2017, 40 (3). Josh Gardner, Danai Koutra, Jawad Mroueh, Victor Pang, Arya Farahi, Sam Krassenstein, and Jared Webb. Driving with Data: Modeling and Forecasting Vehicle Fleet Maintenance in Detroit. Data for Exchange Conference (D4XG17), September 2017. Allie Cell, Bhavika Reddy Jalli, Adam Rauh, Xinyu Tan, Jared Webb, Joshua Bochu, Arya Farahi, Danai Koutra, Jonathan Stroud, Colin Tan. Understanding Blight Ticket Compliance in Detroit. Data Science for Social Good Conference (DSSG17), September 2017. Di Jin, Aristotelis Leventidis, Haoming Shen, Ruowang Zhang, Junyue Wu and Danai Koutra. PERSEUS-HUB: Interactive and Collective Exploration of Large-Scale Graphs. Informatics 2017, 4 (22). Danai Koutra, Abhilash Dighe, Smriti Bhagat, Udi Weinsberg, Stratis Ioannidis, Christos Faloutsos and Jean Bolot. PNP: Fast Path Ensemble Method for Movie Design. ACM SIGKDD, August 2017. (oral presentation, acceptance rate 9%) [bibtex] [slides] Amanda Minnich, Nikan Chavoshi, Danai Koutra and Abdullah Mueen. BotWalk: Efficient Adaptive Exploration of Twitter Bot Networks IEEE/ACM ASONAM, July 2017 (full paper, acceptance rate 19%). [bibtex] Pravallika Devineni, Evangelos Papalexakis, Danai Koutra, Michalis Faloutsos. One Size Does Not Fit All: Profiling Personalized Time-Evolving User Behaviors. IEEE/ACM ASONAM, July 2017 (full paper, acceptance rate 19%). [bibtex] Oshini Goonetilleke, Kewen Liao, Danai Koutra, and Timos Sellis. Edge Labeling Schemes for Graph Data. Statistical and Scientific Database Management (SSDBM), June 2017 (full paper, acceptance rate 23%). [bibtex] Pravallika Devineni, Danai Koutra, Michalis Faloutsos, Christos Faloutsos. Facebook Wall Posts: A Model for User Behaviors. Social Network Analysis and Mining (SNAM), Springer, January 2017. [bibtex] Asso Hamzehei, Jiang Qiang, Raymond Wong, Danai Koutra and Fang Chen. TSIM: Topic-based Social Influence Measurement for Social Networks. AusDM, December 2016. Selected as one of the best papers of AusDM'16. Invited to Australasian Journal of Information Systems. [bibtex] Venkata Krishna Pillutla, Zhanpeng Fang, Pravallika Devineni, Danai Koutra, Christos Faloutsos, Jie Tang. On Skewed Multi-dimensional Distributions: the FusionRP Model, Algorithms, and Discoveries. SIAM SDM 2016, May 2016. [bibtex] Danai Koutra, Neil Shah, Joshua T. Vogelstein, Brian Gallagher, Christos Faloutsos. DeltaCon: A Principled Massive-Graph Similarity Function with Attribution. Transactions on Knowledge Discovery from Data (TKDD), February 2016. [bibtex] [slides] [code in Matlab] [code in R] Taught in graduate courses: Rutgers University (CS 16:198:672). Neil Shah, Danai Koutra, Tianmin Zou, Brian Gallagher, Christos Faloutsos. TimeCrunch: Interpretable Dynamic Graph Summarization. Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD), August 2015. [bibtex] [code] Pravallika Devineni, Danai Koutra, Michalis Faloutsos, Christos Faloutsos. If walls could talk: Patterns and anomalies in Facebook wallposts. IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining (ASONAM), August 2015. [bibtex] Danai Koutra, Paul N. Bennett, Eric Horvitz. Events and Controversies: Influences of a Shocking News Event on Information Seeking. WWW 2015, Florence, Italy. May 2015. [acceptance 14.1%] A short version of this paper appeared at the TAIA workshop of SIGIR'14. Arxiv version. [bibtex (WWW)] [bibtex (TAIA)] News coverage (MIT Review, Technology.org). Stephen Ranshous, Shitian Shen, Danai Koutra, Steven Harenberg, Christos Faloutsos, and Nagiza F. Samatova. Anomaly Detection in Dynamic Networks: A Survey. WIREs Computational Statistics, Wiley, January 2015. [bibtex] Miguel Araujo, Stephan Guennemann, Spiros Papadimitriou, Christos Faloutsos, Prithwish Basu, Ananthram Swami, Evangelos Papalexakis, Danai Koutra. Discovery of `comet' communities in temporal and labeled graphs (Com2). Knowledge and Information Systems (KAIS, Springer), 2015. [bibtex] Danai Koutra, U Kang, Jilles Vreeken, Christos Faloutsos. Summarizing and Understanding Large Graphs. Special Issue of Statistical Analysis and Data Mining, "Best of SDM 2014". October 2014. [bibtex] Wolfgang Gatterbauer, Stephan Guennemann, Danai Koutra, Christos Faloutsos. Linearized and Single-Pass Belief Propagation. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment, Volume 8(4) (VLDB'15), August 2015. [bibtex] [code] [Python Library] Walter S. Lasecki, Mitchell Gordon, Danai Koutra, Malte Jung, Steven P. Dow and Jeff P. Bigham. Glance: Rapidly Coding Behavioral Video with the Crowd. ACM Symposium on User Interface Science and Technology (UIST'14), October 2014. [bibtex] U Kang, Jay-Yoon Lee, Danai Koutra, Christos Faloutsos. Net-Ray: Visualizing and Mining Web-Scale Graphs. PAKDD 2014, Tainan, Taiwan, May 2014. [bibtex] Recipient of a travel award. Yibin Lin, Agha Ali Raza, Jay-Yoon Lee, Danai Koutra, Roni Rosenfeld, Christos Faloutsos. Influence Propagation: Patterns, Model and Case Study. PAKDD 2014, Tainan, Taiwan, May 2014. [bibtex] [slides] Miguel Araujo, Spiros Papadimitriou, Stephan Guennemann, Christos Faloutsos, Prithwish Basu, Ananthram Swami, Evangelos E. Papalexakis, Danai Koutra. Com2: Fast Automatic Discovery of Temporal (Comet) Communities. PAKDD 2014, Tainan, Taiwan, May 2014. [bibtex] Best student paper award (runner up). Leman Akoglu, Hanghang Tong, Danai Koutra. Graph-based Anomaly Detection and Description: A Survey. Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery (DAMI), April 2014. [bibtex] Danai Koutra, U Kang, Jilles Vreeken, Christos Faloutsos. VoG:Summarizing and Understanding Large Graphs. SDM 2014, Philadelphia, PA, April 2014. [bibtex] [slides][code] Updated! Selected as one of the best papers of SDM'14. Taught in graduate courses: Saarland University at the Dept. of Databases and Information Systems (TADA). Recipient of a travel award. Danai Koutra, Hanghang Tong, David Lubensky. BIG-ALIGN: Fast Bipartite Graph Alignment. IEEE ICDM 2013, Dallas, TX, December 2013. [bibtex] [slides] Recipient of a travel award. Michele Berlingerio, Danai Koutra, Tina Elliasi-Rad, Christos Faloutsos.Network Similarity via Multiple Social Theories. Proceedings of the 5th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining (ASONAM 2013), Niagara Falls, Canada, August 2013. [bibtex] Ted Senator, Danai Koutra et al. Detecting Insider Threats in a Real Corporate Database of Computer Usage Activities. KDD 2013, Chicago, IL, August 2013. [bibtex] Danai Koutra, Yu Gong, Sephira Ryman, Rex Jung, Joshua Vogelstein, Christos Faloutsos. Are all brains wired equally? OHBM 2013, Seattle, WA, June 2013. [bibtex] Jay-Yoon Lee, U Kang, Danai Koutra, Christos Faloutsos. Fast anomaly detection despite the duplicates. WWW 2013, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, May 2013. (poster) [bibtex] Danai Koutra, Joshua Vogelstein, Christos Faloutsos. DeltaCon: A Principled Massive-Graph Similarity Function.SDM 2013, Austin, Texas, May 2013. [bibtex] [slides] [code] Taught in graduate courses: Rutgers University (CS 16:198:672). Recipient of a travel award. Danai Koutra, Vasileios Koutras, B. Aditya Prakash, Christos Faloutsos. Patterns amongst Competing Task Frequencies: Super-Linearities, and the Almond-DG model. PAKDD 2013, Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia, April 2013. [bibtex] [slides] Taught in graduate courses: Virginia Tech (CS 6604). Danai Koutra, Evangelos Papalexakis, Christos Faloutsos. TENSORSPLAT: Spotting Latent Anomalies in Time. PCI (16th Panhellenic Conference on Informatics w/ international participation), Piraeus, Greece, Oct. 2012. [bibtex] [slides] Keith Henderson, Brian Gallagher, Tina Eliassi-Rad, Hanghang Tong, Sugato Basu, Leman Akoglu, Danai Koutra, Lei Li, Christos Faloutsos. RolX: Structural Role Extraction & Mining in Large Graphs. ACM SIGKDD, Beijing, China, Aug. 2012. [bibtex] Danai Koutra, Tai-You Ke, U Kang, Duen Horng (Polo) Chau, Hsing-Kuo Kenneth Pao, and Christos Faloutsos. Unifying Guilt-by-Association Approaches: Theorems and Fast Algorithms. ECML PKDD, Athens, Greece, Sep. 2011. [bibtex][slides][code][poster] Taught in graduate courses: CMU at Tepper School of Business (47-953), Rutgers University (CS 16:198:672). Other Publications Lukas Faber, Tara Safavi, Davide Mottin, Emmanuel Muller, Danai Koutra. Adaptive Personalized Knowledge Graph Summarization. KDD Workshop on Mining and Learning with Graphs (MLG), August 2018. Saba Al-Sayouri, Ekta Gujral, Danai Koutra, Evangelos Papalexakis, Sarah Lam. t-PINE: Tensor-based Predictable and Interpretable Node Embeddings. KDD Workshop on Mining and Learning with Graphs (MLG), August 2018. Jie Song, Danai Koutra, Murali Mani, H.V. Jagadish. GeoFlux: Hands-Off Data Integration Leveraging Join Key Knowledge. ACM SIGMOD, 2018 (demo). Mark Heimann, Danai Koutra. On Generalizing Neural Node Embedding Methods to Multi-Network Problems. ACM SIGKDD Workshop on Mining and Learning with Graphs (MLG), 2017. Saba A Syouri, Pravallika Devineni, Sarah Lam, Vagelis Papalexakis and Danai Koutra. GECS: Graph Embedding Using Connection Subgraphs. ACM SIGKDD Workshop on Mining and Learning with Graphs (MLG), 2017. Lisa Jin, Danai Koutra. ECOviz: Comparative Visualization of Time-Evolving Network Summaries. ACM SIGKDD IDEA workshop 2017. [code][poster] Yike Liu, Tara Safavi, Neil Shah, Danai Koutra. Reducing Million-Node Graphs to a Few Structural Patterns: A Unified Approach. KDD Workshop on Mining and Learning with Graphs (MLG), August 2016. Di Jin, Christos Faloutsos, Danai Koutra, Ticha Sethapakdi. PERSEUS3: Visualizing and Interactively Mining Large-Scale Graphs. KDD Workshop on Mining and Learning with Graphs (MLG), August 2016. Sai Gouravajhala, Danai Koutra, Walter S. Lasecki. Towards Crowd-Assisted Data Mining. CHI Workshop on Human Centred Machine Learning (HCML), May 2016. Yike Liu, Neil Shah, Danai Koutra. An Empirical Comparison of the Summarization Power of Graph Clustering Methods. NIPS Networks in the Social and Information Sciences Workshop, December 2015. Danai Koutra. Exploring and Making Sense of Large Graphs. Dissertation, CMU, August 2015. Winner of the 2016 ACM SIGKDD Dissertation Award. Honorable Mention for the SCS Doctoral Dissertation Award. Nominated to ACM for the Doctoral Dissertation Award. Danai Koutra, Di Jin, Yuanchi Ning, Christos Faloutsos. Perseus: An Interactive Large-Scale Graph Mining and Visualization Tool.Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment (VLDB'15 Demo), August 2015 Danai Koutra, Paul N. Bennett, Eric Horvitz. Influences of a Shocking News Event on Web Browsing. SIGIR 2014 Workshop on Temporal, Social and Spatially-aware Information Access (TAIA'14), July 2014. [bibtex] [slides] Danai Koutra. Large Graph Mining and Sense-making. Thesis proposal, CMU, March 2014. [bibtex] Michele Berlingerio, Danai Koutra, Tina Eliassi-Rad, Christos Faloutsos. NetSimile: A Scalable Approach to Size-Independent Network Similarity. WIN 2012, Workshop on Information in Networks, New York, NY, Sept. 2012. (presentation and panel discussion) [bibtex] Leman Akoglu*, Duen Horng Chau*, U Kang*, Danai Koutra*, and Christos Faloutsos. Large Graph Mining System for Patterns, Anomalies & Visualization. 16th Pacific-Asia Conference, PAKDD 2012, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, May 2012. (demo, *: authors in alphabetical order) [bibtex] Leman Akoglu*, Duen Horng Chau*, U Kang*, Danai Koutra*, and Christos Faloutsos. OPAvion: Mining and visualization in large graphs. ACM SIGMOD Conference 2012, Scottsdale, Arizona, USA, May 2012. (demo paper, *: authors in alphabetical order) [bibtex] Michele Berlingerio, Danai Koutra, Tina Eliassi-Rad, Christos Faloutsos. A Scalable Approach to Size-Independent Network Similarity.NIPS 2012, Workshop on Social Network and Social Media Analysis, Methods, Models, and Applications, Lake Tahoe, NV, Dec. 2012. [bibtex] [poster] Danai Koutra. Approximate sequence matching with MapReduce. Diploma Thesis, NTUA, Jul. 2010. [bibtex]slides] Teaching [top] EECS 598-008: Advanced Data Mining, Winter 2019, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. EECS 498-001 - Data Mining (80 students), Fall 2018, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. EECS 598-008: Mining Large-Scale Graph Data (65 students), Winter 2018, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. EECS 498-001 - Data Mining (new course!) (63 students), Fall 2017, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. Summarizing Large-Scale Graph Data: Algorithms, Applications and Open Challenges. SIAM SDM 2017, Houston, TX, April 2017. EECS 484 - Database Management Systems (283 students), Winter 2017, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. EECS 598-004: Mining Large-Scale Graph Data (34 students), Fall 2016, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. EECS 484 - Database Management Systems (120 students), Winter 2016, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. EECS 598 - Graph Mining and Exploration at Scale: Methods and Applications (23 students), Fall 2015, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. Node and graph similarity: Theory and Applications. With Tina Eliassi-Rad and Christos Faloutsos. IEEE ICDM 2014, Shenzen, China, December 2014. (acceptance ratio: 22%) Node similarity, graph similarity and matching: Theory and Applications. With Tina Eliassi-Rad and Christos Faloutsos. SDM 2014, Philadelphia, PA, April 2014. (over 100 researchers attended!) 15-415 Database Applications: TA, Spring 2013 -- Instructor: Christos Faloutsos. 15-381 Artificial Intelligence: Representation and Problem Solving: TA, Fall 2012 -- Instructors: Ariel Procaccia and Emma Brunskill. Scripts [top] Scatter Heatmap Input: csv file with (x,y,value) triplets Output: heatmap for scatter data in log-log scale Code: heatmap.rar 1D and 2D distributions for a given set of features Input: tab-separated file with one observation per line (each column corresponds to a feature) Output: the 1D distribution for each feature all the pairwise 2D distributions Code: distributionPlots.zip Setup hadoop and pegasus Code: setEnv.sh Bio [top] Danai Koutra is an Assistant Professor in Computer Science and Engineering at University of Michigan, where she leads the Graph Exploration and Mining at Scale (GEMS) Lab. Her research interests include large-scale graph mining, analysis of multi-source network data, graph summarization, similarity and matching, and anomaly detection. Danai's research has been applied mainly to social, collaboration and web networks, as well as brain connectivity graphs. She won an ARO Young Investigator award and an Adobe Data Science Research Faculty Award in 2018, the 2016 ACM SIGKDD Dissertation award, and an honorable mention for the SCS Doctoral Dissertation Award (CMU). She holds one "rate-1" patent and has six (pending) patents on bipartite graph alignment. She has multiple papers in top data mining conferences, including 5 award-winning papers, and her work has been covered by the popular press, such as the MIT Technology Review. She is the Program Director of the SIAG on Data Mining and Analytics, an Associate Editor of ACM TKDD, a Demo co-chair for ICDM'18. She was SIGKDD Cup co-chair in '17, Ph.D. Forum co-chair for ICDM17, publicity co-chair for SDM'17, and has co-organized 3 tutorials and 3 workshops. She has worked at IBM Hawthorne, Microsoft Research Redmond, and Technicolor Palo Alto/Los Altos. She earned her Ph.D. and M.S. in Computer Science from CMU in 2015 and her diploma in Electrical and Computer Engineering at the National Technical University of Athens in 2010. Outreach for diversity in computing: Affiliations: Funding Sources: Copyright Danai Koutra Last Modified on 08/06/2015. 
