 JOE GIBBS POLITZ Upcoming I'll be presenting our work on reactors in Pyret at Programming 2019 in April (preprint) . I'm teaching Basic Data Structures and Object-Oriented Design this winter. I've been working with San Diego Unified School District to integrate computing into 9th grade math. Hear about it on UCSD TV . Courses Many of my course offerings are designed with reusable materials, including videos, notes, and starter code for assignments. Feel free to check them out, and get in touch if you have questions or find them helpful. Introduction to Programming in Java: 1 (UCSD CSE 8A) [Fall 2018] Basic Data Structures and Object-Oriented Design (UCSD CSE 12) [Winter 2019] [Winter 2018] Compiler Construction (UCSD CSE 131) [Spring 2018] [Spring 2017] Introduction to Object-Oriented Programming in Java: Accelerated Pace (UCSD CSE 11) [Spring 2017] Principles of Compiler Design (Swarthmore CS 75) [Spring 2016] Data Structures and Algorithms (Swarthmore CS 35) [Fall 2015] Programming Languages (Swarthmore CS 91) [Spring 2015] Programming Languages (Brown University CS173; with Shriram Krishnamurthi) [Fall 2013] [Fall 2012] Recent & Active Projects code.pyret.org is the best way to run Pyret programs. Pyret is a functional scripting language designed for programming education. Bootstrap builds and does professional development for curricula that integrate computing into middle- and high-school courses. The Reactive, Data Science, and Physics curricula use Pyret. In-flow Peer Review integrates code review into programming assignments. I've studied the effects of in-flow peer review of tests . Selected Publications Putting in All the Stops: Execution Control for JavaScript . Sam Baxter, Rachit Nigam, Joe Gibbs Politz, Shriram Krishnamurthi, and Arjun Guha. PLDI 2018. (talk) (arxiv) (acm) . The Sweep: Essential Examples for In-Flow Peer Review . Joe Gibbs Politz, Joseph M. Collard, Arjun Guha, Kathi Fisler, and Shriram Krishnamurthi. SIGCSE 2016. (pdf) . Slimming Languages by Reducing Sugar: A Case for Semantics-Altering Transformations . Junsong Li, Justin Pombrio, Joe Gibbs Politz, Shriram Krishnamurthi. SPLASH Onward! 2015. (pdf) In-Flow Peer-Review . Dave Clarke, Tony Clear, Kathi Fisler, Matthias Hauswirth, Shriram Krishnamurthi, Joe Gibbs Politz, Ville Tirronen, Tobias Wrigstad. ITiCSE 2014 Working Group Report. (pdf) In-Flow Peer-Review of Tests in Test-First Programming . Joe Gibbs Politz, Shriram Krishnamurthi, and Kathi Fisler. ICER 2014 . (pdf) CaptainTeach: Multi-Stage, In-Flow Peer Review for Programming Assignments . Joe Gibbs Politz, Daniel Patterson, Kathi Fisler, and Shriram Krishnamurthi. ITiCSE 2014 . (pdf) Macaroons: Cookies with Contextual Caveats for Decentralized Authorization in the Cloud . Arnar Birgisson, Joe Gibbs Politz, lfar Erlingsson, Ankur Taly, Michael Vrable, and Mark Lentczner. NDSS 2014 . (open source, 3rd-party implementation) (pdf & bib) Python: The Full MontyA Tested Semantics for the Python Programming Language . Joe Gibbs Politz, Alejandro Martinez, Matthew Milano, Sumner Warren, Daniel Patterson, Junsong Li, Anand Chitipothu, and Shriram Krishnamurthi. OOPSLA 2013. (paper and code) TeJaS: Retrofitting Type Systems for JavaScript . Benjamin S. Lerner, Joe Gibbs Politz, Arjun Guha, and Shriram Krishnamurthi. DLS 2013. A Tested Semantics for Getters, Setters, and Eval in JavaScript . Joe Gibbs Politz, Matthew J. Carroll, Benjamin S. Lerner, Justin Pombrio, and Shriram Krishnamurthi. DLS 2012 . (paper, code, & test results) Progressive Types . Joe Gibbs Politz, Hannah Quay-de la Vallee, and Shriram Krishnamurthi. Onward! 2012. (paper, code, & proofs) Semantics and Types for Objects with First-Class Member Names . Joe Gibbs Politz, Arjun Guha, and Shriram Krishnamurthi. FOOL 2012 . (pdf) ADsafety: Type-based Verification of JavaScript Sandboxing . Joe Gibbs Politz, Spiridon Aristides Eliopoulos, Arjun Guha, and Shriram Krishnamurthi. USENIX Security 2011 . (paper, code, & proofs) (bib) (talk video [USENIX Security]) (talk video [Mozilla]) Assistant Teaching Professor UC San Diego CSE Contact Von Lipwig on procrastination: The only way to get something to turn up when you need it is to need it to turn up. (Click for more wisdom) 
