 Prof. Tajana imuni Rosing, Director of System Energy Efficiency Lab Home Teaching Research Publications Sponsors Contacts Contact Biography CV Research Personal Welcome to Tajana's Home Page! Email: Phone: (858) 534 - 4868 Office location and address: CSE #2118 Department of Computer Science and Engineering University of California, San Diego 9500 Gilman Drive, MS 0404 La Jolla, CA 92093 Admin: James Martinez CSE Building (EBU3B), Room 2225 jtmartinez@eng.ucsd.edu (858) 822-1516 Biography Tajana imuni Rosing is a Professor, a holder of the Fratamico Endowed Chair, IEEE Fellow, and a director of System Energy Efficiency Lab at UCSD. Her research interests are in energy efficient computing, cyber-physical and distributed systems. She is leading a number of projects, including efforts funded by DARPA/SRC JUMP CRISP program, with focus on design of accelerators for analysis of big data, a project focused on developing AI systems in support of healthy living, SRC funded project on IoT system reliability and maintainability, and NSF funded project on design and calibration of air-quality sensors and others. She recently headed the effort on SmartCities that was a part of DARPA and industry funded TerraSwarm center. Tajana led the energy efficient datacenters theme in MuSyC center, and a number of large projects funded by both industry and government focused on power and thermal management. Tajanas work on proactive thermal management and ambient-driven thermal modeling was instrumental in laying the groundwork in this field, and has since resulted in a number of industrial implementations of these ideas. Her research on event driven dynamic power management laid the mathematical foundations for the engineering problem, devised a globally optimal solution and more importantly defined the framework for future researchers to approach these kinds of problems in embedded system design. From 1998 until 2005 she was a full time research scientist at HP Labs while also leading research efforts at Stanford University. She finished her PhD in EE in 2001 at Stanford, concurrently with finishing her Masters in Engineering Management. Her PhD topic was dynamic management of power consumption. Prior to pursuing the PhD, she worked as a senior design engineer at Altera Corporation. She has served at a number of Technical Paper Committees, including being an Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, an Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems, and a Guest Editor for the Special Issue of IEEE Transactions on VLSI. 
