 RSS Facebook Google + Contact Larry Smarr Search This Site : Calit2: Viewing Research Bandwidth Through a New Prism 2013.03.20 Toward Personalized Wellness: An Ounce of Prevention is Worth a Pound of Cure 2018.11.10 Using Machine Learning to Identify Major Shifts in Human Gut Microbiome Protein Family Abundance in Disease. Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE International Conference on Big Data. (2016) 2016 Will Supercomputers Create Virtual Maps of Your Body in the Future? 2018.08.06 ABOUT LARRY SMARR Larry Smarr is the founding Director of the California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology ( Calit2 ), a UC San Diego / UC Irvine partnership, and holds the Harry E. Gruber professorship in Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) at UC San Diego's Jacobs School . Before that he was Professor of Physics and Astronomy and the founding director of the National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA) at UIUC. He is a member of the National Academy of Engineering, as well as a Fellow of the American Physical Society and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In 2006 he received the IEEE Computer Society Tsutomu Kanai Award for his lifetime achievements in distributed computing systems and in 2014 the Golden Goose Award . He served on the NASA Advisory Council to 4 NASA Administrators, was chair of the NASA Information Technology Infrastructure Committee and the NSF Advisory Committee on Cyberinfrastructure, and for 8 years he was a member of the NIH Advisory Committee to the NIH Director, serving 3 directors. He is currently the Principal Investigator on the NSF Pacific Research Platform grants. Larry can be followed on Facebook , Twitter (@lsmarr), or on his portal . Larry's Curriculum Vitae | Larry's Research Projects What i'm Reading Complete List of Larry's Recommendations Homo Britannicus: The Incredible Story of Human Life in Britain (2006) American College and University Presidents' Climate Commitment A Doctor's Vision of the Future of Medicine Powering the Planet Recent Warming Reverses Long-Term Arctic Cooling Energy Technology Perspectives 2008: Scenarios and Strategies to 2050 (2008) The Copenhagen Diagnosis: Updating the World on the Latest Climate Science (2009) Recent Twitter Posts Tweets by @lsmarr 2009 All Rights Reserved. 
