 Dr. Steven Swanson Research Pubs Join Recruit Teaching Contact Advisorly Advice News Dr. Steven Swanson Professor Director, Non-Volatile Systems Lab swanson@cs.ucsd.edu Onyx in MIT Tech. Review, Gizmodo, Engadget, EETimes, June 11, 2011 Moneta and Onyx are getting a great deal of press coverage. A sampling is below. MIT Technology Review Engadget Gizmodo Former NVSL Postdoc Wins Best Paper Award at OSDI18 October 8, 2018 Dr. Yiying Zhang (who was a post-doc in the NVSL until not too long ago) won the best paper award Morteza Wins Best Paper Award December 14, 2017 Morteza Hoseinzadeh's work at Samsung over the summer won the Best Paper Award at IPCCC 2017. The work focuses on Engineering Reliable Persistence @ ACM SIGARCH Blog November 7, 2017 Integrating non-volatile main memories (NVMMs) into the storage/memory hierarchy make data integrity a critical design consideration. Protecting data in NVMM Andiry Presents NOVA-Fortis at SOSP in Shanghai October 23, 2017 Andiry described building the world's first fault-tolerant non-volatile main memory file system at SOSP'17 in Shanghai. The resulting file system NOVA in the Linux Weekly News August 6, 2017 The NOVA file system was recently written up in the Linux Weekly News. NOVA's goal is to provide a high-performance, full-featured, A Vision of Persistence @ ACM SIGARCH Blog July 10, 2017 For decades, memory systems have relied on DRAM for capacity, SRAMs for speed and then turned programmers loose with malloc(), Graduation Party! June 17, 2017 NVSL students family and friends joined newly minted Drs. Yang "Robert" Liu, Meenakshi Sundaram Bhaskaran, Michael Wei, and Yanqin Jin Hung Wei is a Professor at NCSU! July 1, 2016 Our own Hung Wei Tseng has just started his new position at North Carolina State University. Hung Wei did his Congratulations Professor Zhang! July 1, 2015 Dr. Yiying Zhang has just completed her post-doc in the NVSL and has moved to Purdue as an Assistant Professor. Michael Wei Receives NSF Graduate Research Fellowship March 12, 2012 The NSF awards these fellowships across science, engineering, and math-related disciplines. They are very prestigious. From the NSF web site:The National Onyx in MIT Tech. Review, Gizmodo, Engadget, EETimes, June 11, 2011 Moneta and Onyx are getting a great deal of press coverage. A sampling is below. MIT Technology Review Engadget Gizmodo Former NVSL Postdoc Wins Best Paper Award at OSDI18 October 8, 2018 Dr. Yiying Zhang (who was a post-doc in the NVSL until not too long ago) won the best paper award Morteza Wins Best Paper Award December 14, 2017 Morteza Hoseinzadeh's work at Samsung over the summer won the Best Paper Award at IPCCC 2017. The work focuses on Engineering Reliable Persistence @ ACM SIGARCH Blog November 7, 2017 Integrating non-volatile main memories (NVMMs) into the storage/memory hierarchy make data integrity a critical design consideration. Protecting data in NVMM Andiry Presents NOVA-Fortis at SOSP in Shanghai October 23, 2017 Andiry described building the world's first fault-tolerant non-volatile main memory file system at SOSP'17 in Shanghai. The resulting file system NOVA in the Linux Weekly News August 6, 2017 The NOVA file system was recently written up in the Linux Weekly News. NOVA's goal is to provide a high-performance, full-featured, A Vision of Persistence @ ACM SIGARCH Blog July 10, 2017 For decades, memory systems have relied on DRAM for capacity, SRAMs for speed and then turned programmers loose with malloc(), Graduation Party! June 17, 2017 NVSL students family and friends joined newly minted Drs. Yang "Robert" Liu, Meenakshi Sundaram Bhaskaran, Michael Wei, and Yanqin Jin Hung Wei is a Professor at NCSU! July 1, 2016 Our own Hung Wei Tseng has just started his new position at North Carolina State University. Hung Wei did his Congratulations Professor Zhang! July 1, 2015 Dr. Yiying Zhang has just completed her post-doc in the NVSL and has moved to Purdue as an Assistant Professor. Michael Wei Receives NSF Graduate Research Fellowship March 12, 2012 The NSF awards these fellowships across science, engineering, and math-related disciplines. They are very prestigious. From the NSF web site:The National Onyx in MIT Tech. Review, Gizmodo, Engadget, EETimes, June 11, 2011 Moneta and Onyx are getting a great deal of press coverage. A sampling is below. MIT Technology Review Engadget Gizmodo My Group's Research NOVA: The World's Fastest Fault Tolerant File System We built the NOn-Volatile memory Accelerated (NOVA) file system specifically to expose the performance non-volatile main memory technologies (like Intels 3D-XPoint and NVDIMMs). NOVA applies many well-known file system techniques but with an NVMM twist. The resulting file system is faster and easier to use than any other file system available. Onyx: The First Phase Change Memory SSD Six years before Intel released Optane, we built Onyx, the worlds first publicly demonstrated phase change memory SSD. Onyx and Moneta (Onyxs cousin) used an FPGA controller and a reengineered software stack to nearly eliminated OS overheads to deliver amazing performance. For several years, Moneta and Onyx were the fastest SSDs (GB-for-GB) in the world. NV-Heaps: Pioneering Persistent Programming Non-volatile memory is blazingly fast but tricky to use safely, so we built NV-Heaps to understand the challenges and design solutions. We discovered new kinds of bugs and devised ways to prevent them, so that programmers can build fast, reliable, persistent data structures. Six years later we are still building on the concepts that NV-Heaps pioneered. How Good is Your Memory? Can You Trust it? Should you trust your SSD with critical data? Will your it keep your secrets? Will it work in space? To answer these questions we measured the performance, reliability, and security of flash memory. Our results changed how governments and companies prevent data breaches and changed how researchers around the world think about flash memory. Reinventing Databases for Smart SSDs SSDs are miniature computers sitting alongside your data. Why shouldnt they help databases (and other systems) process it? We developed a series of prototype SSDs that integrate complex data processing functions into the SSDs itself. We added support for databases, key-value stores, web search, and more. GreenDroid: Holding Back the Darkness (of Silicon) How do you make use of silicon you cant turn on? That is a central question facing processor designers as Moores Law seemingly comes to an end. We developed prototype mobile application processor called GreenDroid that leverage dark silicon to dramatically reduce energy consumption in smartphones. Research Join my Group News Publications Selected Publications Full List NOVA-Fortis: A Fault-Tolerant Non-Volatile Main Memory File System Jian Xu, Lu Zhang, Amirsaman Memaripour, Akshatha Gangadharaiah, Amit Borase, Tamires Brito Da Silva, Steven Swanson , and Andy Rudoff Proceedings of the 26th International Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP) , 2017. NOVA: A Log-structured File System for Hybrid Volatile/Non-volatile Main Memories Jian Xu and Steven Swanson 14th USENIX Conference on File and Storage Technologies (FAST 16) , 2016. Willow: A User-Programmable SSD Sudharsan Seshadri, Mark Gahagan, Sundaram Bhaskaran , Trevor Bunker, Arup De, Yanqin Jin, Yang Liu, and Steven Swanson Proceedings of the 11th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI '14) , 2014. Refactor, Reduce, Recycle: Restructuring the I/O Stack for the Future of Storage Steven Swanson and Adrian M. Caulfield Computer 46(8):52-59, 2013 . From ARIES to MARS:Transaction Support for Next-Generation Solid-State Drives Joel Coburn , Trevor Bunker, Meir Shwarz, Rajesh K. Gupta , and Steven Swanson Proceedings of the 24th International Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP) , 2013. Welcome to the Entropics: Boot-Time Entropy in Embedded Devices Keaton Mowery, Michael Wei , David Kohlbrenner, Hovav Shacham, and Steven Swanson IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (Oakland 2013) . Providing Safe, User Space Access to Fast, Solid State Disks Adrian M. Caulfield , Todor I. Mollov, Louis Eisner , Arup De, Joel Coburn , and Steven Swanson Proceeding of the 17th international conference on Architectural support for programming languages and operating systems , 2012. Moneta: A High-Performance Storage Array Architecture for Next-Generation, Non-volatile Memories Adrian M. Caulfield , Arup De, Joel Coburn , Todor I. Mollov, Rajesh K. Gupta , and Steven Swanson Proceedings of the 2010 43rd Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture , 2010. Onyx: A Prototype Phase-Change Memory Storage Array Ameen Akel, Adrian M. Caulfield , Todor I. Mollov, Rajesh K. Gupta , and Steven Swanson Proceedings of the 3rd USENIX conference on Hot topics in storage and file systems , 2011. NV-Heaps: Making Persistent Objects Fast and Safe With Next-Generation, Non-Volatile Memories Joel Coburn , Adrian M. Caulfield , Ameen Akel, Laura M. Grupp , Rajesh K. Gupta , Ranjit Jhala, and Steven Swanson Proceedings of the sixteenth international conference on Architectural support for programming languages and operating systems , 2011. Reliably Erasing Data From Flash-based Solid State Drives Michael Wei , Laura M. Grupp , Frederick E. Spada, and Steven Swanson Proceedings of the 9th USENIX conference on File and storage technologies , 2011. The GreenDroid Mobile Application Processor: An Architecture for Silicon's Dark Future Nathan Goulding-Hotta , Jack Sampson , Ganesh Venkatesh , Saturnino Garcia, Joeseph Auricchio , Po-Chao Huang, Manish Arora , Siddhartha Nath, Vikram Bhatt, Jonathan Babb, Steven Swanson , and Michael Bedford Taylor Micro, IEEE 31(2):86-95, march-april 2011 . Conservation cores: reducing the energy of mature computations Ganesh Venkatesh , Jack Sampson , Nathan Goulding , Saturnino Garcia, Vladyslav Bryksin, Jose Lugo-Martinez, Steven Swanson , and Michael Bedford Taylor Proceedings of the fifteenth edition of ASPLOS on Architectural support for programming languages and operating systems , 2010. Characterizing flash memory: anomalies, observations, and applications Laura M. Grupp , Adrian M. Caulfield , Joel Coburn , Steven Swanson , Eitan Yaakobi , Paul H. Siegel , and Jack K. Wolf Proceedings of the 42nd Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture , 2009. Gordon: An Improved Architecture for Data-Intensive Applications Adrian M. Caulfield , Laura M. Grupp , and Steven Swanson IEEE Micro 30:121-130, 2010 . ( IEEE Micro Top Picks ). Join My Group Grad Students Training researchers is my main job, and Im always looking for new graduate students. If you want to build cool systems (and enjoy some sun), please apply and mention me as a potential advisor. Visitors I often host visiting graduate students, faculty, and industry practitioners from around the world. Please contact me if you are interested. Post-Docs I typically have one post-doc opening per year. My previous post -docs are all professors now. If you have a strong track record in computer systems or architecture, please contact me. Join my Group Teaching Building Quadcopters Building Robots In the Spring I teach CSE91: Building Quadcopters. In 10 weeks, students design and build a small quadcopter from scratch, including the hardware and software. The class covers PCB design and manufacturing, the principles of quadcopter operation, sensor filtering and fusion, simple control theory, and embedded systems programming. Its lots of fun. Course Webpage In CSE42: Designing and Programming Electronic Devices, students design, build, and program simple wheeled robots while they learn basic programming in CSE11 (Introduction to Computer Science and Object-Oriented Programming). Working in the Envision Maker Studio, they design the robots using a custom robot design tool, 3D design tools, and their own creativity. Then, solder them together and program them with Arduino. Course Webpage About/Contact Bio: Steven Swanson is a professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of California, San Diego and the director of the Non-volatile Systems Laboratory. His research interests include the systems, architecture, security, and reliability issues surrounding heterogeneous memory/storage systems, especially those that incorporate non-volatile, solid-state memories. He has received an NSF CAREER Award, Google Faculty Awards, a Facebook Faculty Award, and been a NetApp Faculty Fellow. He is aco-founder of the Non-Volatile Memories Workshop. In previous lives, he worked on low-power co-processors for irregular applications and buildingscalable dataflow architectures. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Washington in 2006 and his undergraduate degree from the University of Puget Sound in 1999. Office: EBU3B 3212 ( Directions ) Phone: (858)534-1743 E-mail: swanson@cs.ucsd.edu CV: Download PDF Mailing Address: Computer Science & Engineering University of California, San Diego 9500 Gilman Drive EBU3B 3212 MC 0404 La Jolla, CA 92093-0404 2017 Dr. Steven Swanson All rights reserved 
