 Trevor Mudge Home of Trevor Mudge Skip to content Menu Home Publications Papers Technical Reports Patents Projects Students PhDs Supervised Past Projects Crossbar Courses Home Publications Papers Technical Reports Patents Projects Students PhDs Supervised Past Projects Crossbar Courses Trevor Mudge 100 Word Biography Trevor Mudge received anMSand a PhD in Computer Science from the University of Illinois, Urbana. He is now the Bredt Family Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. He is author of numerous papers on computer architecture, programming languages, VLSI design, and computer vision. He has chaired 55 theses in these areas. In 2014 he received the ACM/IEEE CS Eckert-Mauchly Award and the University of Illinois Distinguished Alumni Award. He is a Life Fellow of the IEEE, a Fellow of the ACM, and a member of the IET and the British Computer Society. Computer Architecture and Design Most of my research and teaching focusses on computer architecture and related areas. Picture Above is a 128-core multiprocessor, Centip3De, that was designed and built by our group at Michigan in 2010. It is remarkable in that it stacks seven silicon dies on top of one another. Four of the die contain the 128 (64 each) cores with their caches, two of the die are DRAM memory and the seventh die contains sense amps and spreader to the package pins. Six Concepts of Computer Architecture Surprisingly, there are only six distinct concepts used to design computers, apart from technology advances, that reappear in many guises over and over again: Locality spatial & temporal,e.g. caches Prediction no state change,e.g. branch prediction Speculation state change,e.g. prefetching Indirection,e.g. virtualization Parallelism,e.g. pipelining, OoO, vectors Specialization,e.g. GPUs, accelerators Teaching Doctor (examining a life insurance prospect): Do you ever talk in your sleep? Prospect: No, but I often talk in other peoples sleep Doctor: But how can that be? Prospect: Im a college professor. #230 in Ten Hundred Laughs Ray Scruggs Houston TX 1928 Quotes The empires of the future are the empires of the mind. Churchillgood prediction from an unlikely source I am not very impressed with theological arguments whatever they may be used to support. Such arguments have often been found unsatisfactory in the past. In the time of Galileo it was argued that the texts, And the sun stood still and hasted not to go down about a whole day (Joshua x. 13) and He laid the foundations of the earth, that it should not move at any time (Psalm cv. 5) were an adequate refutation of the Copernican theory.Alan Turing, Computing machinery and intelligence Home Publications Papers Technical Reports Patents Projects Students PhDs Supervised Past Projects Crossbar Courses Contact Trevor MudgeBredt Family ProfessorEECS DepartmentDivison of Computer Science & Engineeringtnm@umich.edu4757 Bob and Betty Beyster Building 2019 The Regents of the University of Michigan Michigan Engineering | College Administration, 1221 Beal Avenue, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2102 +1 (734) 647-7000 | Contact the College Safety Information | Privacy Policy | Acceptable Use Login | Logout 
