 Michael Nebeling MICHAEL NEBELING I'm an Assistant Professor at the University of Michigan School of Information, where I created the Information Interaction Lab. We study the next generation of user interfaces, as well as the methods and tools to create them. With the goal of making interfaces easier to use and to create, our research benefits both users and designers, and allows more users to be designers. Previously, I was a Swiss NSF-funded Visiting Researcher in the Human-Computer Interaction Institute at Carnegie Mellon University, and a Senior Researcher and Lecturer at the Department of Computer Science at ETH Zurich. Curriculum Vitae My lab is rapidly growing, but I'm always looking for people who share my interests in designing, building, and studying novel user interfaces. If you are interested in working with me, send me an email. Research at the University of Michigan (2016-today) Since starting the Michigan Information Interaction Lab in September 2016, I have taken my research on cross-device interfaces further and developed a new focus on AR/VR interfaces. This work has led to three papers at the ACM CHI 2018 conference. I am also contributing to the AVMR Initiative, created an AR Teach-Out, and developed two new courses focused on AR/VR design and development. Selected AR/VR Research ProtoAR (CHI'18 paper): a rapid physical-digital prototyping tool for mobile augmented reality apps that enables rapid transition from physical prototyping using paper wireframes and Play-doh models to digital prototyping based on multi-layer cross-device authoring and interactive capture tools XD-AR (EICS'18 paper): an augmented reality platform that we are developing for multi-user multi-device augmented reality experiences that allow users to "edit" the physical world in realtime 360Anywhere (EICS'18 paper): a platform enabling multi-user collaboration scenarios using augmented reality projections of 360 video streams Please find out more on the Information Interaction Lab web site. Show more research... Research at Carnegie Mellon University (2015-2016) Using my Swiss NSF mobility grant at CMU, I investigated ways of orchestrating multiple devices and crowds to enable complex information seeking, sensemaking and productivity tasks on small mobile and wearable devices. I also contributed to the Google IoT project led by CMU. This work led to three papers at ACM CHI 2016: WearWrite (CHI'16 paper, CHI'16 talk, UIST'15 demo, tech report on arXiv): a wearable interface enabling smartwatch users to orchestrate crowd workers on more powerful devices to complete writing tasks on their behalf XDBrowser (CHI'16 paper, CHI'16 talk, CHI'17 paper, CHI'17 talk): a new cross-device web browser that I used to elicit 144 multi-device web page designs for five popular web interfaces leading to seven cross-device web page design patterns Snap-To-It (CHI'16 paper): a mobile app allowing users to opportunistically interact with appliances in multi-device environments simply by taking a picture of them Research at ETH Zurich (2009-2015) Beyond Responsive Design XCML (WWW journal article): a domain-specific language that tightly integrates context-aware concepts and multi-dimensional adaptivity mechanisms using context matching expressions based on a formally-defined context algebra jQMetrics (CHI'11 paper, jQMetrics on GitHub): an evaluation tool for web developers and designers to analyze web page layout and perform measurements along a set of empirically derived metrics Adaptation to Touch and Multi-touch jQMultiTouch (EICS'12 paper, jQMultiTouch on GitHub): jQuery-like toolkit and rapid prototyping framework for multi-device/multi-touch web interfaces providing a unified method for the specification of gesture-based multi-touch interactions W3Touch (CHI'13 paper): an evaluation tool for web designers to assess the usability of web interfaces on touch devices as well as a toolkit for automating the adaptation process to different touch device contexts based on simple usability metrics Crowdsourcing Design and Evaluation CrowdAdapt (EICS'13 paper): a web site plugin for crowdsourcing adaptations for additional viewing conditions not considered in the original design CrowdStudy (EICS'13 paper): a toolkit and general framework for recruiting crowds as test users and guiding them through asynchronous remote web site usability evaluations User-Defined Multimodal Interactions Kinect Browser (ITS'14 paper): a new multimodal web browsing system designed based on a replication of Morris's Web on the Wall guessability study Kinect Analysis (EICS'15 paper): both a method and a tool for recording, managing, visualizing, analyzing and sharing user-defined multimodal interaction sets based on Kinect Cross-Device Interfaces MultiMasher (WISE'14 paper): a rapid prototyping tool for cross-device applications supporting mashing up multiple web applications and devices and integrating them into a new cross-device user experience XDStudio (CHI'14 paper): an authoring environment for cross-device user interfaces supporting interactive development on multiple devices based on a combination of simulated authoring and on-device authoring XDKinect (EICS'14 paper): a toolkit for developing cross-device user interfaces and interactions using Kinect to mediate interactions between multiple devices and users Personal Information Management and Cloud Storage PIM Light (AVI'14 paper): a study on Adobe Photoshop Lightroom developing the process of engineering personal information management tools by example MUBox (CHI'15 paper): a system introducing multi-user aware extensions for working in teams on top of personal cloud storage solutions such as Dropbox Selected Publications For the full list of publications, please check Google Scholar and DBLP. Go to top Visit my research lab! Contact You can reach me by email via nebeling@umich.edu. If you are interested in my work, please feel free to follow me on Twitter @michinebeling. Twitch AR/VR Office Hours, Tuesdays 2-3pm EST! Check out my CodePen A-Frame collections! News and Events January Got a Disney Research Faculty Award. This award will enable me to implement and test my AR workbench concept. I'm excited! December Two papers conditionally accepted to CHI 2019: one on my 360proto tool for making AR/VR interfaces from paper and the other is a conceptual framework for classifying mixed reality experiences developed based on expert interviews and a literature survey, led by my former postdoc, Max Speicher. Also, my CHI 2019 AR/VR prototyping course was accepted. November Got a Mozilla Research Grant for a next-generation AR/VR browser. This award will support several new students joining my lab next semester! Joined UIST 2019 PC. Looking forward to visiting Stanford next summer and to your submissions! October Attending parts of UIST, AWE, and ISMAR in Germany! Walter Lasecki is going to present our paper on Arboretum at UIST and I'll present The Trouble with AR/VR Authoring Tools at ISMAR. September New semester starting. Teaching interaction design and my new AR/VR course! Joined the CHI 2019 PC on the Engineering Interactive Systems & Technologies subcommittee. August Workshop paper The Trouble with AR/VR Authoring Tools accepted at ISMAR 2018. July Became EICS 2019 Technical Chair. Max Speicher completed his postdoc in my lab. Good luck for the future! June Visiting ETH Zurich and giving a talk on our AR research. Attending UIST 2018 PC meeting. Learned a lot, and had some fun. XDBrowser related paper for improving web accessibility got in. Brian presenting XD-AR and 360Anywhere at EICS 2018. May Visiting Disney Studios! Also visiting Disney Research LA and giving a talk on our AR research. 360Anywhere accepted at EICS 2018. April Wrapping up UIST 2018 submissions. Attending CHI 2018. XD-AR accepted at EICS 2018. March Giving an Ignite UX talk on ProtoAR. Launching my AR Teach-Out. Giving a mini lecture on AR/VR to our incoming MSI students. Rob and Josh will join me as PhD students! Welcome to U-M! February Visiting Oculus Research (now Facebook Reality Labs) and giving a talk on our AR research. Also, excited to join the UIST 2018 PC! January Two AR/VR course proposals accepted! Going to start teaching the AR/VR intro course in Fall 2018. Also, started filming our AR Teach-Out. Going to launch in March. Show more news... 2017 December Three papers accepted at CHI 2018! New grants from Ford and Masco around AR/VR projects. November Started developing two new courses on Augmented/Virtual/Mixed Reality. There was also a first article about it in the Michigan Record. October My proposal for an AR Teach-Out accepted. Looking forward to producing it over the next few months! I was also on the PhD thesis committee of Maria Husmann at ETH Zurich. Excellent cross-device research! September In a great team effort, my lab submitted six papers to CHI 2018. Thanks everyone! Here's a showreel of our summer research. I'm very proud of this work with my students. August Became a Co-PI in a Lenovo sponsored project around AR interfaces. June Getting ready for my four summer interns. And, back on the CHI Engineering PC for 2018. Looking forward to your submissions! May CHI 2017 in Denver with Max, Brian, and former CMU colleague, Nikola Banovic. LOL! Presented XDBrowser 2.0 and my #HCI.Tools position paper on Playing the Tricky Game of Toolkits Research. March/April Max Speicher joining my lab as Research Fellow, Brian Hall as PhD Student, and Erin McAweeney as REMS Fellow. Exciting! Also won an ESSI grant! February Invited to the #HCI.Tools workshop at CHI for my position paper Playing the Tricky Game of Toolkits Research. January Teaching SI 582 Intro to Interaction Design this spring. 2016 December XDBrowser 2.0 accepted at CHI 2017. November Giving XDUI tutorial and attending RoomAlive toolkit tutorial at ISS'16. Meeting my former ETH Zurich colleagues Fabrice Matulic and Maria Husmann. A lot of fun! September Starting as Assistant Professor at UMSI. Setting up the Information Interaction Lab. Teaching SI 482 Interaction Design Studio. A first! August Wrapping up my Swiss NSF Advanced.Postdoc Mobility fellowship at CMU. Had a great time. Many new friends for life. Thanks for the support! June Organizing the EICS'16 XDUI workshop (proposal). XDUI tutorial accepted at ISS'16. May Accepted Assistant Professor position at UMSI. Attended CHI'16 in San Jose, CA. Participated in microproductivity and cross-surface workshops. Led Systems@CHI lunch. Chaired end-user programming session. Presented WearWrite (video) and XDBrowser (video). January-May Invited talks at TU Munich, Yale, Virginia Tech, Indiana-Purdue, UMSI, UW CSE (video), Adobe Research, and Google. April Joined HCOMP'16 PC. March Bluewave accepted at EICS'16. January Accepted at CHI'16 microproductivity and cross-surface workshops. 2015 December Attended CHI'16 PC meeting in San Jose, CA. Three papers accepted: WearWrite, XDBrowser, Snap-To-It. Also received a new Swiss NSF research grant. November Attended UIST'15 in Charlotte, NC. Presented WearWrite demo. October Joined EICS'16 PC. September CHI'16!!! August WearWrite demo accepted at UIST'15. Joined IUI'16 and AVI'16 PCs. July Published WearWrite tech report. June Co-chaired EICS'15 and co-organized XDUI workshop. Joined CHI'16 PC. May Attended CHI'15. Received Honorable Mention for MUBox. Participated in mobile collocated interactions workshop and presented my SNSF project. Chaired session on multi-device interaction. March Kinect Analysis and XDSession accepted at EICS'15. February Started working at CMU HCII. Acknowledgments My work at Michigan is supported by the School of Information, the Office of Academic Innovation, and the Exercise & Sport Science Initiative. It is also externally sponsored by Microsoft, Google, Lenovo, Disney, Ford, and Masco. 56650 views since 2016-05-14 
