 Brian D. Noble Home of Brian D. Noble Skip to content Menu Brian D. Noble Brian Noble is Chair of Computer Science and Engineering and Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science in the College of Engineering at the University of Michigan. He is well known as an advocate for multidisciplinary and experiential learning, and a champion for diversity, equity, and inclusion. As a researcher, Nobles work has been in the area of operating and storage systems, mobile and pervasive computing, and vehicle informatics. Projects he has undertaken have included securing mobile devices against physical possession attacks; providing for fairness in collaborative, peer-to-peer storage systems; measuring and modeling network availability and host mobility; and improving access to the information economy in the developing world. In addition to operating systems, distributed systems, and mobile computing, he also has interests in incentive-centered design, the usability of mobile systems, and automotive telematics. With several collaborators in 2003, Noble identified and corrected a serious flaw in the mobility model used almost universally in mobile system simulation. In 2010, he and his colleagues looked ahead to the transformation of the automotive user experience and piloted a system for automatically screening in-vehicle apps for user interface guideline violations, increasing efficiency for the humans who would one day be evaluating numerous apps. Prior to being named chair, Noble served as associate dean for undergraduate education at the College of Engineering since 2013. Under his leadership, the College enhanced the opportunities and overall experience available to undergraduate students, which has included the launch of an interdisciplinary undergraduate program in the rapidly-growing area of data science with the U-M College of Literature, Science and the Arts. Also under Nobles tenure, the Colleges Multidisciplinary Design Program which offers hands-on opportunities for students to work on projects with others outside their fields has expanded to 1,600 students, more than 180 projects, and 70 sponsors. Participation in the International Programs in Engineering has increased by 50 percent. Contact Brian NobleProfessor and ChairComputer Science and EngineeringUniversity of Michiganbnoble@umich.edu(734) 764-85043713 Bob and Betty Beyster Building 2019 The Regents of the University of Michigan Michigan Engineering | College Administration, 1221 Beal Avenue, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2102 +1 (734) 647-7000 | Contact the College Safety Information | Privacy Policy | Acceptable Use Login | Logout 
