 Quentin F. Stout Quentin F. Stout How to reach me Affiliations Research Teaching Tutorials, consulting Past lives Affiliations Professor, Computer Science and Engineering, and Climate and Space (curtesy appointment), University of Michigan. Co-Director, Center for Space Environment Modeling (CSEM) Executive Board, Earth Systems Modeling Framework (ESMF) Research Interests, Projects, Publications Research My students, collaborators, and I work in parallel computing (using supercomputers for computational science, algorithms for abstract models, and points inbetween); serial algorithms; adaptive clinical trials and active learning; and random other things. The computational science work has involved small projects, such as ground water remediation, atmospheric modeling, and statistical imputation, and large multidisciplinary projects on frameworks for earth systems modeling and space environment modeling. Publications These were needed so that I didn't Perish. Here is an annotated list and my vita. Teaching, Students Some research projects for students, and some questions my students are working on, or have done in the past. Some of these problems were generated by the students and were far from my expertise. However, if you're good, have some initiative, and have an interesting problem, I can help you pursue it. I can ask many questions -- you need to figure out the answers and/or tell me what the questions should be. Some of my students. Classes taught recently: Algorithms (EECS 586), Parallel Computing (EECS 587), Theory of Computation (EECS 376), Discrete Mathematics (EECS 203) Tutorials, Consulting Parallel Computing Tutorials Taught at U.S. Patent Office (USTPO), Ford Motor, NASA, and various supercomputing and parallel computing conferences. Here's an overview of the tutorial. Tutorials on Adaptive Clinical Trial Design Emphasizing their application to phase I, phase I/II, and ethical clinical trials. Here is a description of our research in adaptive sampling. Consulting I do consulting in parallel computing, supercomputing, adaptive clinical trials, and algorithms. I've consulted for or been supported by IBM, GlaxoSmithKline, Ford Motor, DARPA, NSA, NSF, NASA, DOE, DoD, ..., and my students have been supported by many of these institutions as well as Microsoft, Google, Intel, AT&T, JP Morgan, etc. I've also been an expert witness, on the winning side, and assisted with patent cases. How to reach me: Computer Science and Engineering 734-763-1518 (voice) University of Michigan 734-763-8094 (fax) 2260 Hayward St. QStout @ umich edu Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2121 web.eecs.umich.edu/~qstout/ If you are close enough, Hi is quite effective. Copyright 2000-2 Quentin F. Stout 
