 Jenna Wiens | umich Jenna Wiens MLD3: Machine Learning for Data-Driven Decisions Biography Research Teaching Contact About Me I am an Assistant Professor of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) at the University of Michigan. I currently head the MLD3 research group. My primary research interests lie at the intersection of machine learning and healthcare. The overarching goal of my research agenda is to develop the computational methods needed to help organize, process, and transform data into actionable knowledge. To find out more about my research interests and what the group is currently working on, please follow the "Research" link above. I received my PhD in 2014 from MIT. At MIT, I worked with Prof. John Guttag in the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Lab (CSAIL). My PhD research focused on developing accurate patient risk-stratification approaches that leverage spatiotemporal patient data, with the ultimate goal of discovering information that can be used to reduce the incidence of healthcare-associated infections. Updates/Recent News January 2018: MLHC 2018 will be held at Stanford University in August. Submission deadline is April 20. See conference website for details. December 2017: I am honored to have been awarded the Morris Wellman Faculty Development Professorship. September 2017: I am co-organizing a workshop at the University of Michigan for undergraduates who want to find out more about opportunities for graduate studies in computer science and engineering. September 2017: Named to MIT Tech Review's list of innovators for research in building data-driven models for predicting healthcare-associated infections. August 2017: Machine Learning for Healthcare has been sold out! Accepted papers are available online here. Talks will be recorded and live streamed here. May 2017: Check out MiCHAMP the Michigan Integrated Center for Health Analytics and Medical Prediction. March 2016: Don't let the bad bugs win: U-M team seeks to outsmart C. difficile with new $9.2 mllion effort. February 2016: Our paper on "Recognizing and Analyzing Ball Screen Defense in the NBA'' was selected as a finalist in the 2016 Research Papers Competition at the MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference. January 2016: I received a National Science Foundation CAREER Award Adaptable, Intelligible, and Actionable Models: Increasing the Utility of Machine Learning in Clinical Care . *I am looking for a Postdoc please contact me with your CV* Jenna Wiens 2018. 
