 Grigore Rosu From FSL Jump to: navigation , search Professor of Computer Science University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign CV Publications ( DBLP , Google , old ) Projects ( K , MOP , jPredictor , Circ ) Editing and Service Teaching Join the FSL group! Aviation page Contact Conferences and journals in which I am involved Note to PC chairs : I'm not going to accept to be part of any program committee that requires me to attend a physical meeting. PC meetings are extremely expensive nuisances (30+ people have to drop what they do and fly internationally). (conferences, ordered backwards by deadline): PLDI'18 , FSCD'18 , WRLA'18, POPL'18 , ASE'17 (general chair), FSCD'17 , ECOOP'17 , CALCO'17 , ICSE'17 (journals): Journal of Logic and Algebraic Programming Research Topics in which I am currently interested Programming Language Design and Semantics - Designing and verifying programming languages using formal executable semantics Runtime Verification - Checking programs against properties as they execute Circular Coinduction - Proving behavioral equivalence by exhaustive testing of indistinguishability You want to work on these topics? See my list of Open Problems and Challenges . Runtime Verification, Inc. Runtime Verification, Inc. (RV) : a startup company that I founded, commercializing tools for increasing software quality. Are data races something that really annoy you? Do you suspect your tests are non-deterministic and sometimes fail because of a data race that you were not able to catch yet? Find it using our RV-Predict tool , which implements our maximal causal model approach in PLDI'14 and RV'12 . It gives you the peace of mind that it is the best you can do dynamically without false alarms. Are you fed up with the lack of portability of your C code, due to undefined behaviors? Do you want bug-free C code? Then try our RV-Match tool , which builds upon our formal ISO C11 semantics in K published in PLDI'15 and POPL'12 . It is already showing better results than the best static analysis tools and it reports no false alarms. Join RV and the K Team! Other links My Blog (at RV) Useful, Interesting, Fun Retrieved from " http://fsl.cs.illinois.edu/index.php?title=Grigore_Rosu&oldid=18692 " Personal tools Log in Namespaces Page Discussion Variants Views Read View source View history Actions Search Navigation FSL Home People Projects Publications News This page was last modified on 2 February 2019, at 21:31. This page has been accessed 449,316 times. Privacy policy About FSL Disclaimers 
