 Biocomputing and Media Research Lab Image: Figures pertaining to research Welcome News Group Members Current Former Research Foci Bioinformatics and Computational Drug Discovery Multimedia Social Media Grant Pages NIH-R01 NSF CAREER Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation IBM Research Initiation Award CSUPERB and Sandler Center Joint Venture Grant Publications Software Postions Contact Rahul Singh Professor, Department of Computer Science San Francisco State University, CA 94132 Email Address: Phone: +1 415 338 2307 Fax: +1 415 338 6826 Bio Rahul Singh is a professor in the Department of Computer Science at San Francisco State University and professor (by affiliation) at the Center for Discovery and Innovation in Parasitic Diseases , University of California, San Francisco. His technical interests are in computational drug discovery, bioinformatics, and multimedia information modeling and management. The primary thrust of Dr. Singh's research activities lies in developing algorithmic techniques and computational infrastructure that are especially of value in curing the neglected diseases of humankind. His efforts in education and teaching focus on training and developing the next generation of scientists and engineers who can conduct research and technology development at the interface of traditional sciences. Dr. Singh received his PhD in Computer Science from the University of Minnesota and the diplom in Computer Science, with excellence (summa cum laude), from the Moscow Power Engineering Institute. Prior to joining academia, Dr. Singh was principal staff scientist (Imaging) at Scimagix Inc. Earlier he founded and headed the computational drug discovery department at Exelixis Inc. At Scimagix, he was the co-designer of the ProteinMine software which received the Frost & Sullivan Technology Innovation Award. At Exelixis, algorithms and software developed by Dr. Singh and his team were used to build the companies drug discovery capabilities from scratch. These included algorithms for designing and building a 2 million compound library (one of the largest in the industry at that time), data management of large repositories as well as algorithms for data analysis from high-throughput and high-content screening, and algorithms for QSAR and ADME-PK modeling. Use of these computational techniques in part, have played a role in development of multiple investigative drugs as well as the marketed cancer drugs Cabozantinib and Cobimetinib. Dr. Singh was a San Francisco State University Presidential Fellow (2006) and is a recipient of the CAREER award (2007-2012) of the National Science Foundation. His current research is supported, among others, by the National Institutes of Health, The National Science Foundation, the Bill and Melinda Gates foundation, IBM Research, and the California State University Program for Education and Research in Biotechnology. Academic Genealogy: ( Takeo Kanade and Pradeep Khosla ) Nikolaos Papanikolopoulos Rahul Singh SF State Home Contact 1600 Holloway Avenue . San Francisco . CA 94132 . Tel (415) 338-1111 
