 Toggle navigation Home Teaching Research Students News Contact Maunendra Sankar Desarkar I am an Assistant Professor at the Computer Science and Engineering Department at IIT Hyderabad , India. My main research areas are Recommendation Systems, Information Retrieval, Social Network Analysis, Data Mining, Machine Learning. I am a part of the Data and Informatics Group (DIg) at the Department of CSE, IIT Hyderabad. Prior to Joining IIT Hyderabad, I have worked for Samsung Research India Bangalore and Sybase Inc. (a SAP Company) in the past. Recent News Sreekanth Madisetty has an accepted manuscript at the ICDE 2019 Doctoral Symposium. This is the 35th editition of the premier coference in the field of data engineering. The manuscript is about the work that Sreekanth has done as part of his Doctoral Thesis so far, and the research plans ahead. And now it is "IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems". Title of the paper: "A Neural Network Based Ensemble Approach for Spam Detection in Twitter". Many congratulations to Sreekanth. Long paper accepted at RecSys 2018. This is a work with Rohan Tondulkar and Manisha Dubey. Title of the paper is: "Get Me The Best: Predicting Best Answerers in Community Question Answering Sites" Work with MTech student Shamik Kundu titled "Classification of Short-Texts Generated During Disasters: A Deep Neural Network Based Approach" accepted in International Symposium on Foundations of Open Source Intelligence and Security Informatics (FOSINT-SI), to be held in conjunction with ASONAM 2018. Work with MTech student Priyanka Choudhury accepted in 2018 SIGIR Workshop On eCommerce. Title of the paper is "PReFacTO: Preference Relations Based Factor Model with Topic Awareness and Offset". Paper titled "Personalized Tourist Package Recommendation using Graph Based Approach" accepted in User Modelling Adaptation and Personalization (UMAP) 2018 under Late Breaking Results category. This paper is a work with Rashmi HTI , our MTech student. Paper titled "Class Specific TF-IDF Boosting for Short-text Classification: Application to Short-texts Generated During Disasters" accepted in Exploitation of Social Media for Emergency Relief and Preparedness (SMERP) Workshop is WebConf 2018 (earlier known as WWW). Samujjwal gets travel grant from Microsoft Research India to present the work. More news 
