 P. K. Srijith Search this site RESEARCH About me Publications Teaching Sitemap RESEARCH Research Area : Bayesian data analysis, probabilistic machine learning. Specific Interests : Bayesian non-parametrics, Inference algorithms, stochastic processes, deep learning, social media and text analysis My research interest lies in developing probabilistic machine learning and Bayesian data analysis techniques to solve real world learning problems.I have developed techniques based on probabilistic methods such as Gaussian processes, Dirichlet processes and point processes, and kernel methods to solve problems in natural language processing, information retrieval and social networks. Parametric and non-parametric Bayesian models allow the incorporation of prior information and domain knowledge. Non-parametric Bayesian models additionally allow one to learn rich and flexible models due to their non-parametric nature and allow the model complexity to be determined by the data.This helps to overcome the problem of model selection to a great extent. I am working on developing scalable non-parametric Bayesian models and efficient inference algorithms for a variety of learning problems. I am also interested in analysing time series and textual data arising from various application domains. Current research applies Bayesian reasoning and probabilistic modelling to diverse problem domains such as numerical methods, optimisation, deep learning, social networks, recommendation systems and astrophysical data. Kindly find more details about our work andgroup here *** #Keralaflood Please visit our website which live stream tweets on resources availability and requirement kerala flood resources *** Talk on deep Gaussian processes at the 3rd Indian workshop on machine learning during july 1-3, 2018 *** JICAfunding for the Bayesian Deep Learning project in collaboration with Dr. Emtiyaz Khan from RIKEN Centre for Advanced Intelligence project, Tokyo. ***Organised a GIAN course on Social and Information Network Analysis : Problems, Models and Machine Learning Methods conducted by Dr. Manuel Gomez Rodriguez on Dec 11-14, 2017 at IIT Hyderabad. ***Talk at the Workshop on Analysis and Inferencefrom Unstructured Data during Oct 9-10 atIndianInstitute of Science on Social Network Analysis using Point Processes. *** Received SERB funding for social network analysis project using point processes, deep learning and topic modelling. Sign in | Recent Site Activity | Report Abuse | Print Page | Powered By Google Sites 
