 Rakesh Venkat Home Research Teaching Other Stuff Rakesh Venkat Contact address: Academic Block C, Room 208-C Department of Computer Science and Engineering, I.I.T. Hyderabad, Sangareddy, Telangana 502285 Contact : rakeshvenkat AT iith DOT ac DOT in I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering , at Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H) . Previous affiliations: HUJI, Israel -- TIFR, Mumbai -- IIT-Bombay Research My broad research area is Theoretical Computer Science. In particular, approximation algorithms, hardness of approximation, and communication complexity. Below are links to pre-prints of my publications and manuscripts. Publications Semi-Random Models with Planted Sparse Vertex Cuts: Algorithms for Exact and Approximate Recovery (ICALP 2018) With Anand Louis Conference Version | arXiv (Full Version) Approximating Sparsest Cut in Low-Rank Graphs via Embeddings From Approximately Low-Dimensional Spaces. (APPROX 2017) With Yuval Rabani Preprint Multiplayer Parallel Repetition for Expanding Games. (ITCS 2017) With Irit Dinur, Prahladh Harsha and Henry Yuen arXiv Embedding approximately low dimensional l 2 2 metrics into l 1 (FSTTCS 2016) With Amit Deshpande and Prahladh Harsha Conference Version | arXiv On Fortification of Projection Games (RANDOM 2015) With Amey Bhangale, Ramprasad Saptharshi and Girish Varma Conference version | arXiv Guruswami-Sinop rounding without Higher Level Lasserre (APPROX 2014) With Amit Deshpande Conference Version | arXiv Manuscripts Hypergraph two-coloring in the Streaming model (Under submission.) With Jaikumar Radhakrishnan and Saswata Shannigrahi arXiv preprint Technical Reports and Theses On Sparsest Cut and Parallel Repetition Ph.D. Thesis, 2017. pdf Parallel Repetition Theorem and Related Results Research project report, 2010. pdf | Talk slides Searching and Ranking in Entity Relation Graphs Master's Thesis, 2008. pdf Courses Offered [Jan 2019-May 2019] CS5200 : Approximation Algorithms Other Interests I enjoy trekking, long-distance running, playing the piano, and various sports. 
