 Hello, Friend. My name is Matus Telgarsky . I am an assistant professor at UIUC . I received my PhD at UCSD in 2013 under Sanjoy Dasgupta . I study mathematical aspects of machine learning. Current interests. Approximation/representation power of deep networks. I proved there exist deep networks which can only be approximated by shallower networks if they have exponentially as many nodes ( arXiv , video , lecture notes one and two ), and continue to work on related questions (e.g., rational functions , and generative networks (with Bolton Bailey) ). Generalization of deep networks. The empirically-observed excess risk correlates with the Lipschitz constant of networks, and yields a generalization bound ( arXiv , poster , video ). Optimization and implicit regularization of deep networks. In grad school I studied AdaBoost, and found that taking the step size to 0 leads to margin maximization ( arXiv ). Ziwei Ji and I have been studying margin maximization for deep networks, first proving it for logistic regression ( arXiv ), and then for deep linear networks ( arXiv ). Other interests. In the past I focused on boosting and clus te ring ; in the future i hope to study reinforcement learning. Teaching. Machine learning theory (CS 598 TEL): fall 2019, fall 2018 , fall 2017, fall 2016. Machine learning (CS 446): spring 2019 , spring 2018. Miscellaneous. I have two glorious PhD students: Bolton Bailey , Ziwei Ji . My research is funded by an NSF CAREER award , and an NVIDIA GPU grant. During summer 2019 I am co-organizing a Simons Institute summer program on deep learning ; I was also at the Simons Institute during Spring 2017 . I co-founded the Midwest ML Symposium (MMLS) and moreover co-chaired the 2017 and 2018 editions, all together with glorious Po-Ling Loh . I have a degree in violin performance from Juilliard , but hardly play any more . I coded a screensaver , a 3-d plotting tool , and a few other things if you know where to look. My desk is always messy . I like scifi books, pencils , ramen , and aphex twin . 
