Steve Rubinow is an exceptional, multifaceted, global executive, strategist and award-winning Chief Information and Technology Officer, with deep experience in transforming companies, working on many boards and teaching in university classrooms. Conversant in the latest advances in technology, Steve has the exceptional ability to utilize existing and new ways to use technology to improve and impact complex industries..Currently he is the Director of the Institute for Professional Development at DePaul Universitys College of Computing and Digital Media and a Professional Lecturer in the School of Computing. He also is President of Infocology Inc., a technology consultancy..Most recently he was the Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer for Catalina, a personalized digital media company based in St. Petersburg, FL, where he led all aspects of the global technology function. He developed and shepherded a complete transformation of core data and analytic systems, and a modernization of corporate and organizational culture to be more entrepreneurial and competitive. .While Steve was at FX Alliance, a global provider of electronic foreign exchange trading solutions, the firm was acquired shortly after his arrival by mass media and information company Thomson Reuters. Steve was the Chief Information officer in Reuters Marketplaces Division in New York, NY. .As Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer at the New York Stock Exchange Euronext in New York, Steve transformed an entire industry from a technology standpoint. He was responsible for all aspects of technology for the largest global exchange in the world. He combined operations across continents, and designed and developed new data centers, the financial industrys first cloud and a new culture of innovation for global trading. He had begun this work as Chief Technology Officer for Archipelago Holdings, Inc., in Chicago, IL, and was called on to integrate three major mergers/acquisitions: NYSE-Archipelago, NYSE-Euronext and NYSE-American Stock Exchange. Because of cyber-terrorism threats in this industry, Steve had government clearance from major federal security, intelligence and law enforcement agencies for addressing cybersecurity/counter-terrorism issues..In his 2012 induction into the CIO Hall of Fame, Steve was described as clearly one of the most innovative and transformational CIOs ever. .Steve has held leadership positions in Information Technology and Marketing for leading firms in the Internet, investment, manufacturing and service industries. He has extensive experience teaching university-level computer science courses. He serves on a number of Boards of Directors in both advisory and volunteer roles..Steve holds a Doctorate degree in Chemistry, a Master of Business Administration degree in Marketing and Finance (ranked first in his graduating class), a Master of Science degree in Chemistry and a Bachelor of Science degree in Biological Sciences and Chemistry (graduating with honors and distinction), all from the University of Illinois. He also earned a Master of Science degree in Computer Science from DePaul University. .Steve is an avid cyclist and hiker. His two favorite hiking destinations are the American Southwest and the Himalayas.
