 Skip to content Recent Publications Publications Research Books Bio Contact Recent Publications Publications Research Books Bio Contact Ron Goldman Professor of Computer Science Bio Ron Goldman is a Professor of Computer Science at Rice University in Houston, Texas. Professor Goldman received his B.S. in Mathematics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1968 and his M.A. and Ph.D. in Mathematics from Johns Hopkins University in 1973. Professor Goldmans current research interests lie in the mathematical representation,manipulation, analysis and reconstruction of shape using computers. His work includesresearch in computer aided geometric design, solid modeling, computer graphics,polynomials and splines. He is particularly interested in algorithms for polynomial andpiecewise polynomial curves and surfaces, as well as in applications of algebraic anddifferential geometry to geometric modeling. He most recent focus is on the uses ofquaternions and Clifford algebras in computer graphics. Dr. Goldman is currently an Associate Editor of Computer Aided Geometric Design. Dr.Goldman has published over a hundred articles in journals, books, and conferenceproceedings on these and related topics. He has also published two books on ComputerGraphics and Geometric Modeling: Pyramid Algorithms: A Dynamic ProgrammingApproach to Curves and Surfaces for Geometric Modeling, and An IntegratedIntroduction to Computer Graphics and Geometric Modeling. His most recent book isRethinking Quaternions: Theory and Computation, and he is currently working on asequel on Dual Quaternions. Before returning to academia, Dr. Goldman worked for ten years in industry solvingproblems in computer graphics, geometric modeling, and computer aided design. Heserved as a Mathematician at Manufacturing Data Systems Inc., where he helped toimplement one of the first industrial solid modeling systems. Later he worked as a SeniorDesign Engineer at Ford Motor Company, enhancing the capabilities of their corporategraphics and computer aided design software. From Ford he moved on to Control DataCorporation, where he was a Principal Consultant for the development group devoted tocomputer aided design and manufacture. His responsibilities included database design,algorithms, education, acquisitions, and research. Dr. Goldman left Control Data Corporation in 1987 to become an Associate Professor ofComputer Science at the University of Waterloo in Ontario, Canada. He joined thefaculty at Rice University in Houston, Texas as a Professor of Computer Science in July1990. About Ron Goldman is a professor of Computer Science at Rice University. His current work includes research in computer aided geometric design, solid modeling, computer graphics, subdivision, algorithmic algebraic geometry, probability and geometry, blossoming and polar forms, quaternions, dual quaternions, and clifford algebras, special functions and splines. Proudly powered by WordPress | Theme: Amadeus by FlyFreeMedia. 
