 Moshe Y. Vardi's Home Page It's been a long road ... Play Motto: Theorems are forever! The proof, the whole proof, and nothing but the proof! Sapere aude! ("Dare to know!") Observations: The Peter Principle : Employees tend to rise to their level of incompetence. The Vardi Amendment : But when managers reach their level of incompetence, they are simply promoted to a higher level in a different organization, as this is the easiest way to get rid of them. Moshe Y. Vardi Moshe Y. Vardi is Karen Ostrum George Distinguished Service Professor in Computational Engineering and Director of the Ken Kennedy Institute for Information Technology . His interests focus on automated reasoning, a branch of Artificial Intelligence with broad applications to computer science , including database theory, computational-complexity theory, knowledge in multi-agent systems, computer-aided verification , and teaching logic across the curriculum. Painterly Image Office DH 3057 Postal Department of Computer Science Mail Stop 132 Rice University 6100 S. Main Street Houston , TX 77005-1892 713-348-5977 (o), 713-348-5930 (fax), 713-665-5900 (h) Email vardi_DELETE_THIS_@cs.rice.edu Social Media : Follow me on Facebook, Google+, and Twitter Public Profile Talks on YouTube Long Bio , Short Bio , Resume , Bibliography , Talks , and Current Students The Vardi Daily The Vardi Daily Vardi's Insights Vardi's Insights Recent Publications: Papers Course: Logic in Computer Science COMP409 Ken Kennedy Institute for Information Technology K2I Seminar: Computer-Aided Verification COMP607 Course: Research Ethics Seminar COMP601 Course Taught at The Weizmann Institute: Automata-Theoretic Approach to Automated Verification Links Tech industry woes blasted as failure in public policy Is The Tech Industry Facing A Public Policy Crisis? It is time to rethink the Internet? Braucht das Internet einen Neustart? AI and Automation Will Replace Most Human Workers Because They Don't Have to Be Perfect--Just Better Than You Wie die Hippies das Internet zerstrt haben Haben die Hippies das Internet zerstrt? Moshe Vardi -- Powering Technological Resposibility Vardi named fellow of the American Mathematical Society "Frontier of knowledge": Vardi named University Professor Computer scientist Vardi named University Professor Computerforscher: "Die meisten Jobs erfordern nicht viel Intelligenz" Vardi honored for introducing 'a new paradigm' in computing with video of Edinburgh graduation ceremony (see 37:00) Natural vs Artificial Intelligence and Doing Unexpected Work "We have to worry a lot!" Faculty Award of Excllence The 2018 Alonzo Church Award History Shows Humans Cannot Stop Technological Advancements Glenn Beck: Tech Regs & Social Responsibility (w/ Moshe Vardi) Apple, Xerox, IBM, And Fumbling The Future 15 top science & tech leaders offer surprising predictions for 2018 When hundreds of millions will be fired: People will have to go back to school in middle life (in Hebrew) La automatizaciambiaruestra vida de forma dolorosa y duradera How worried should we be about artificial intelligence? I asked 17 experts. Die Industrielle Revolution lehrt uns die Zukunft der Automatisierung von Arbeit What the Industrial Revolution really tells us about the future of automation and work ICAEW wrestles with artificial intelligence SE-Radio Episode 298: Moshe Vardi on P versus NP Brown School of Engineering: Rebuilding the Foundations Las maquinas eliminarn el 50% de los puestos de trabajo actuales en 30 aos Video: Moshe Vardi Receives 2017 ACM Presidential Award Moshe Vardi to Receive ACM Presidential Award 2008 Video on the Relaunch of CACM People of ACM - Moshe Y. Vardi Artificial Intelligence And The Future Of Work Why automation in the age of AI will change the way we think of work When robots do low-level jobs, will employee really take on new roles? Outcry rises when Trump's treasury chief, Steve Mnuchin, scoffs at AI impact on jobs Prepare: The robots are coming for your distribution job Obama Knows What's Really Killing Jobs. Is Trump Listening? Moshe Vardi receives honorary doctorate Moshe VARDI, Doctor Honoris Causa 2017 Rice hosts automation summit Moshe Vardi : "Les hommes se soulront avant les machines 2017: The Year of Self-Driving Cars and Trucks Donald Trump's victory brings the jobs vs. automation issue into the spotlight Interview on Automation and jobs with Russ Capper Automated cars could threaten jobs of professional drivers Video: Humans, Machines and Work: The Future is Now with Slides Neither Trump nor Clinton is addressing the biggest challenge to jobs: automation Are machines coming for your job? Rice professor says yes How robots paved the way for Donald Trump? Automated cars could threaten jobs of professional drivers With AlphaGo's Victory, Are Robots Set to Take Our Jobs? Are Robots Taking Our Jobs? The Conversation: Are Robots Taking Our Jobs? The Last Job on Earth Robots could push unemployment to 50% in 30 years, prof says The Future of Work in 10 Minutes Pint of Science Houston, 2016 Kuldeep Meel: High-Risk, High-Reward Research Behind a Computer's Surprise Victory, Hints of Global Economic Upheaval La revolucie la movilidad Self-Driving Cars Could Save Millions Of Lives -- But There's A Catch AI and robots threaten to unleash mass unemployment, scientists warn Would you bet against sex robots? AI 'could leave half of world unemployed' Humans, machines, and the future of work Humans, machines, and the future of work The Future of Work: But What Will Humans Do? IEEE Podcast: Future of Work The SAT Revolution: Solving, Sampling, And Counting Rice professor receives high honors Constraints, Graphs, Algebra, Logic, and Complexity A Logical Revolution Received honorary doctorate in Brazil Elected to the National Academy of Science Elected SIAM Fellow In Memoriam: Pinchas vardi, 1927-2014 and in in Hebrew and video presentation (in Hebrew) Phase transitions and computational complexity And Logic Begat Computer Science: When Giants Roamed the Earth Enhancing Research and Scholarship at Rice University -- Final Report by The Senate Working Group on Research and Scholarship, Nov. 2013 White Paper for The International Summit on Innovation for Jobs People of ACM: Moshe Y. Vardi Moshe Vardi - Interview on Innovation for Jobs Bauer Business Focus: Computer Science Professor Moshe Vardi ExCAPE Summer School - Part I and II ExCAPE Summer School - Part III Building Rice's Human and Organizational Capital: A Draft Report of the Senate Working Group on Research and Scholarship -- Request for Comments Vardi named SURA Distinguished Scientist A World without Work The Job Market of 2045? Bauer Business Focus: Computer Science Professor Moshe Vardi Robot Economy Could Cause Up To 75 Percent Unemployment Perspectives Workshop: Publication Culture in Computing Research The Consequences of Machine Intelligence The Big Questions in Computation, Intelligence and Life: Does The Future Need Us? Video of IEEE Computer Society Goode Memorial Award EATCS Distinguished Achievements Award Logic in Action Walid Taha v. William Marsh Rice University, II Walid Taha v. William Marsh Rice University, I Review of Insitute of Science and Technology - Austria Turing Centenary in Manchester Distinguished Service Professor Thresher Article on IEEE CS Goode Award IEEE Computer Society Goode Memorial Award Tech world preps to honor 'Father of Computer Science' Alan Turing, as centenary nears NYTimes on P vs. NP Houstonian joins academy to which Washington, Jefferson and Franklin once belonged Multiple Honors ACM Outstanding Contribution Award Rice professor elected fellow of American Academy of Arts and Sciences CRA Distinguished Service Award Rice-BCM Merger Webpage New CACM website launched IEEE Fellow 2008 Blaise Pascal Medal in Computer Science New CACM Launched ACM Presidential Award 2008 ACM SIGMOD Codd Innovations Award Jasper Design Automation Adds New Memebers to Technical Advisory Board 2008 PODS Mendelzon Test-of-Time Award Finite Model Theory and Its Applications Computer science still a good career De Lange Conference: Emerging Libraries 2006 LICS Test-of-Time Award Modal Logic Handbook Kanellakis Award Offshoring: Finally, Facts vs. Folklore How Not to Get Offshored US Tech Jobs Are Back on Track Experts offer fresh perspective on offshoring IT Offshoring Isn't All Bad Computing Error Tech Jobs Are Back Again Outsourcing: Silicon Valley East Study plays down export of computer jobs Detailed Offshoring Study Assesses Rapid Changes Driven by Information Technology Dagstuhl Seminar 05241: Synthesis and Planning, 2005 Three Rice faculty earn Guggenheim Fellowships Interview: Ethics and Politics of Information Technology Vardi Helps Launch New Open-Access Journal Vardi Co-chair of ACM Study to Assess Global Impact of IT Outsourcing Vardi named AAAI fellow Vardi Forges US, European Collaboration Formal Approaches: Tools of Analysis and Synthesis European Research Training Network: Games and Automata for Synthesis and Validation Accellera's Sample of Formal Properties Vardi, Tarlov Elected Fellows of AAAS by peers Webcast talk: Unusual Effectiveness of Logic in Computer Science National Academy of Engineering see also. Symposium on the Effectiveness of Logic in Computer Science (ELICS02) See pictures . The 2001 Sheafor-Lindsay Digital Library Symposium Dagstuhl Seminar 01451: Exploration of Large State Spaces, 2001 Computer Science Logic, 2001 NSF/CISE Workshop on The Unusual Effectiveness of Logic in Computer Science 8th International SPIN Workshop on Model Checking of Software Gdel Prize Dagstuhl Seminar: Probabilistic Methods in Verification Schloss Ringberg Seminar: Model Checking and Program Analysis Tutorial and Workshop on Logic and Cognitive Science The 1999 Federated Logic Conference (FLoC'99) Kanellakis Award SIGCSE Panel on Logic in the CS Curriculum Computer Science Department Rice University 10th European Summer School in Logic, Language and Information (ESSLLI'98) 10th Conference on Computer-Aided Verification (CAV'98) BS Proposal Daghsthul Seminar on Applications of Tree Automata in Rewriting, Logic and Programming ACM Transactions on Database Systems Chicago Journal of Theoretical Computer Science Information and Computation Journal of Computer and System Sciences SIAM Journal on Computing Rice Engineering Day, March 22, 1997 4th Israeli Symposium on Theory of Computing and Systems (ISTCS'96) The 1996 Federated Logic Conference (FLoC'96) DIMACS 1995-96 Special Year on Logic and Algorithms Reasoning about Knowledge (book with co-authors Fagin, Halpern, and Moses) vardi_DELETE_THIS_@cs.rice.edu Due to extremely high level of spam, I have invoked a fairly aggressive level of spam filtering. If you do not get a response to an email message, please call me. This page has been accessed since May 20, 1995. 
