 Ashton Anderson I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Toronto. I'm broadly interested in research that bridges the gap between computer science and the social sciences. News July 2017: I started as a tenure-track Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Toronto. July 2015: I was a Postdoctoral Researcher in the Computational Social Science group at Microsoft Research in New York City. December 2014: I was on the job market . My application materials: CV and research statement . Publications Understanding the Origins of Bias in Word Embeddings , Marc-Etienne Brunet, Colleen Alkalay-Houlihan, Ashton Anderson, Rich Zemel, 2018. Personal Bests as Reference Points , Ashton Anderson, Etan Green, PNAS, 2018. How Constraints Affect Content: The Case of Twitter's Switch from 140 to 280 Characters , Kristina Gligori, Ashton Anderson, Robert West, ICWSM 2018. Mapping the Invocation Structure of Online Political Interaction , Manish Raghavan, Ashton Anderson, Jon Kleinberg, WWW 2018. Auditing Search Engines for Differential Satisfaction Across Demographics , Rishabh Mehrotra, Ashton Anderson, Fernando Diaz, Amit Sharma, Hanna Wallach, Emine Yilmaz, WWW 2017. Assessing Human Error Against a Benchmark of Perfection , Ashton Anderson, Jon Kleinberg, Sendhil Mullainathan, KDD 2016. Exploring limits to prediction in complex social systems , Travis Martin, Jake M. Hofman, Amit Sharma, Ashton Anderson, Duncan J. Watts, WWW 2016 Global Diffusion via Cascading Invitations: Structure, Growth, and Homophily , Ashton Anderson, Dan Huttenlocher, Jon Kleinberg, Jure Leskovec, Mitul Tiwari, WWW 2015. The Structural Virality of Online Diffusion , Sharad Goel, Ashton Anderson, Jake Hofman, Duncan J. Watts, Management Science, 2015 . Political Ideology and Racial Preferences in Online Dating , Ashton Anderson, Sharad Goel, Gregory Huber, Neil Malhotra, Duncan J. Watts, Sociological Science, 2014 . Engaging with Massive Online Courses , Ashton Anderson, Dan Huttenlocher, Jon Kleinberg, and Jure Leskovec, WWW 2014 . Best Paper runner-up . The Dynamics of Repeat Consumption , Ashton Anderson, Ravi Kumar, Andrew Tomkins, Sergei Vassilvitskii, WWW 2014 . Steering User Behavior With Badges , Ashton Anderson, Dan Huttenlocher, Jon Kleinberg, and Jure Leskovec, WWW 2013 . Discovering Value from Community Activity on Focused Question-Answering Sites: A Case Study of Stack Overow , Ashton Anderson, Dan Huttenlocher, Jon Kleinberg, and Jure Leskovec, KDD 2012 . Towards a Computational History of the ACL: 1980 2008 , Ashton Anderson, Dan McFarland, and Dan Jurafsky, ACL 2012 Special Workshop on Rediscovering 50 Years of Discoveries . Effects of User Similarity in Social Media , Ashton Anderson, Dan Huttenlocher, Jon Kleinberg, and Jure Leskovec, WSDM 2012 . Internal Implementation , Ashton Anderson, Yoav Shoham, Alon Altman, AAMAS 2010 . You can contact me at [my first name] @cs.toronto.edu. 
