 Toggle navigation Michael Brudno Home Team Publications Projects Teaching Academic Biography Contact Michael Brudno Professor Department of Computer Science University of Toronto Director Centre for Computational Medicine Hospital for Sick Children Scientific Director HPC4Health Consortium About me I am a Computer Scientist working at the University of Toronto and the Hospital for Sick Children on better using Computational methods for analysis of Medical data (Computational Medicince). More specifically, I work on the capture of structured phenotypic data from clinical encounters, using both refined User Interfaces, and mining of unstructured data (mostly text mining, based on Machine Learning methodology), and the analysis of omics data (genome, transcriptome, epigenome) in the context of the structured patient phenotypes, mostly for rare diseases. My overall research goal is to enable the seamless automated analysis of patient omics data based on automatically captured information from a clinical encounter, thus streamlining clinical workflows and enabling faster and better treatments. I am also the director of the Centre for Computational Medicine , a collaboration nexus and service center working on analysis of diverse biomedical datasets for scientists and clinicians at SickKids and across Canada. Aside from science and family, my other passions include playing soccer, biking, hiking, and cross-country skiing. Interests Biomedical Informatics Personalized Medicine Undiagnosed & Rare Diseases Clinical Phenotyping Genome Interpretation Education PhD in Computer Science, 2004 Stanford University MS in Computer Science, 2003 Stanford University BA in Computer Science & History, 2000 University of California Berkeley Team I am lucky to work with the following graduate students and Postdoctoral fellows. All of them are integrated into the larger Centre for Computational Medicine team, the members of which can be found here . Orion Buske Postdoctoral Research Fellow Sergey Naumenko Postdoctoral Research Fellow Yue Jiang Postdoctoral Research Fellow Nicole Sultanum Graduate Student Aryan Arbabi Graduate Student Willie Chang Graduate Student Jixuan Wang Graduate Student I am proud of the following lab alumni: PhD Students Paul Medvedev , PhD 2010; now Assistant Prof at PennState Nilgun Donmez , MSc 2008, PhD 2012; then PostDoc at Vancouver Prostate Centre Vlad Yanovsky, PhD 2014, then in industry Marc Fiume , MSc 2011, PhD 2015; now CEO at DNAStack Orion Buske , PhD 2016; now Postdoc at Hospital for Sick Children MSc Students Elango Cheran, MSc 2008; then in Industry Seunghak Lee, MSc 2009; then PhD at Carnegie Mellon University Adrian Dalca, MSc 2010; then PhD at MIT Aziz Mezlini, MSc 2011; then PhD student at Toronto Justin Foong, MSc 2013; then Bioinformatician at Hospital for Sick Children; Aryan Arbabi, MSc 2015; now PhD student at Toronto Yuliya Rubanova, MSc 2016; then PhD student at Toronto Selected Publications All Publications Identification of complex genomic rearrangements in cancers using CouGaR. Misko Dzamba, Arun Ramani, Pawel Buczkowicz, Yue Jiang, Man Yu, Cynthia Hawkins, Michael Brudno Genome Research , 2016 Details Link Cell-free DNA fragment-size distribution analysis for non-invasive prenatal CNV prediction. Aryan Arbabi, Ladislav Rampasek, Michael Brudno Bioinformatics , 32 : 1662-1669, 2016 Details Link PhenomeCentral: a portal for phenotypic and genotypic matchmaking of patients with rare genetic diseases. Orion J Buske, Marta Girdea, Sergiu Dumitriu, Bailey Gallinger, Taila Hartley, Heather Trang, Andriy Misyura, Tal Friedman, Chandree Beaulieu, William P Bone, Amanda E Links, Nicole L Washington, Melissa A Haendel, Peter N Robinson, Cornelius F Boerkoel, David Adams, William A Gahl, Kym M Boycott, Michael Brudno Human Mutation , 36 : 931-940, 2015 Details Link The missing indels: an estimate of indel variation in a human genome and analysis of factors that impede detection. Yue Jiang, Andrei L Turinsky, Michael Brudno Nucleic acids research , 2015 Details Link Projects All Current Past CouGaR CNVer is a method for CNV detection that supplements the depth-of-coverage with paired-end mapping information. PhenoTips PhenoTips is a software tool for collecting and analyzing phenotypic information for patients with genetic disorders. PhenomeCentral PhenomeCentral is a repository for clinicians and scientists working in the rare disorder community. CNVer CNVer is a method for CNV detection that supplements the depth-of-coverage with paired-end mapping information. Medsavant MedSavant is a software platform for accelerating the identification of disease-causing genetic variants. SHRiMP SHRiMP is a NGS read mapper that achieves high sensitivity at a reasonable speed. Savant Savant is a next-generation genome browser designed for the latest generation of genome data. Silva SilVA is a tool for the automated harmfulness prediction of synonymous mutations within the human genome. Teaching I have taught the following courses at the University of Toronto: CSC 373: Algorithm Design Winter 2009 Winter 2010 Fall 2016 ECE 358: Foundations of Computing Winter 2013 BCB 410: Applied Bioinformatics Fall 2007 CSC 2417: Algorithms for Genomics Fall 2006 Winter 2009 Fall 2010 Winter 2015 CSC 2431: Topics in Computational Biology: Next-Gen Sequencing Winter 2008 Winter 2010 CSC 2431: Topics in Computational Biology: Computational Medicine Winter 2014 Winter 2016 Academic Biography Michael Brudno is the Scientific Director of the Centre for Computational Medicine at the Hospital for Sick Children, where he is also a Senior Scientist in the Genetics and Genome Biology program, as well as Professor of Computer Science at the University of Toronto. Michaels main research interest is the development of computational methods for the analysis of clinical and genomic datasets, especially capture of precise clinical data from clinicians using effective user interfaces, and its utilization in the automated analysis of genomes. He is also leading HPC4Health, a joint project of SickKids and UHN to build a private computing cloud for Toronto hospitals. After receiving a BA in Computer Science and History from UC Berkeley, Michael received his PhD from the Computer Science Department of Stanford University, working on algorithms for whole genome alignments. He completed a postdoctoral fellowship at UC Berkeley and was a Visiting Scientist at MIT. He is the recipient of the Ontario Early Researcher Award and the Sloan Fellowship, as well as the Outstanding Young Canadian Computer Scientist Award. Contact brudno@cs.toronto.edu +1 416-978-2589 University of Toronto: Pratt Building Room 286C, 6 Kings College Rd, Toronto, ON M5S 3G4, Canada. Map Data Map data 2019 Google Map Data Map data 2019 Google Map data 2019 Google Terms of Use Report a map error Map Terrain Satellite Labels Hospital for Sick Children: Peter Gilgan Centre for Research and Learning Room 12.9709, 686 Bay St, Toronto, ON M5G 0A4, Canada Map Data Map data 2019 Google Map Data Map data 2019 Google Map data 2019 Google Terms of Use Report a map error Map Terrain Satellite Labels 2016 Michael Brudno 
