 Animesh Garg Postdoc Researcher Stanford PAIR Stanford AI Lab Computer Science Stanford University Contact me: garg@cs stanford edu Find me on: Publications Research Resume People Blog News Pubs CV Welcome! I am currently a senior scientist at Nvidia Research with Dieter Fox . I am also a postdoc at Stanford AI Lab working with Fei-Fei Li and Silvio Savarese at Stanford AI Lab . I lead the Stanford People, AI and Robotics (PAIR) research in the Vision & Learning group. My current research focuses on machine learning algorithms for perception and control in robotics. I develop algorithmic methods to enable efficient robot learning for long-term sequential tasks through Generalizable Autonomy. The principal focus of my research is to understand representations and algorithms to enable the efficiency and generality of learning for interaction in autonomous agents. Research Interests : Robotics, Reinforcement Learning, Computer Vision and Optimal Control. I work on applications of autonomous manipulation in surgical, personal and warehouse robotics. I received MS in Computer Science and Ph.D. in Operations Research from the UC, Berkeley in 2016. I was advised by Ken Goldberg in the Automation Lab as a part of the Berkeley AI Research Lab (BAIR) . I also worked closely with Pieter Abbeel , Alper Atamturk and UCSF Radiation Oncology. Contact me: garg@cs stanford edu Find me on: Recent News 26 Jan 2019 : 2 Papers accepted at ICRA 2019 01 Dec 2018 : 4 New Papers under review 07 Nov 2018 : Speaking at UW Robotics Seminar 01 Nov 2018 : Roboturk at CoRL and in the news 01 Jul 2018 : Organizing a workshop on Causal Imitation at RSS 2018 Recent Research Rethinking Generalization in Robot Learning At Stanford, I am leading the effort in Rethinking Generalization in Robot Learning . It is a multi-proged effort in developing hierarcical Deep RL abstractions along with learning from video demonstrations. Read More Learning & Automation in Surgical Subtasks We are working towards surgical sub-task automation and exploring a data driven approach for reduction in training effort with unsupervised task structure learning. Read More Coverage in Media/Press 2010- 2019 Animesh Garg. CC-NC-SA-4.0 . Built with Jekyll . Template adapted from Sergey Karayev . 
