Its an exciting time to carry out research in materials. Not only do material scientists design and process new and improved materials but also materials now pace the development of many technologies, ranging from information processing to energy-efficient gas turbines for aircraft and electrical power generation. But what about materials for the future? How can we make sustainable materials when only limited supplies of critical elements exist on our planet?Since coming to Harvard, my group is carrying out long-term research in two new areas: using dielectric elastomers for energy conversion and soft robotics and using microbes to make, and recycle, materials. Dielectric elastomers behave as compliant capacitors: apply an electric field and they change shape. Alternatively, deform them and they will generate an electric voltage, very efficiently. (More details are given in the Research area of our web-site). Several energy materials  materials that are critical to more energy efficient technologies  consist of scarce elements, elements that have extremely low concentrations on earth. For instance, tellurium. It is used in CdTe solar cells and in many of the most efficient thermoelectrics, yet it is amongst the rarest elements on earth. In our group we are exploring the use of microbes to extract tellurium from existing devices and ores so that this rare element can be sustainably used for generations to come. Our research has also opened up the possibility of using microbes to grow films, such as used in solar cells, from earth abundant, non-toxic elements.Professor Clarke has been involved in many different materials research and development programs, contributing to ceramics, metals, composites and semiconductors, as well as introducing new approaches for studying the interrelations between microstructure and properties. He is author or co-author of more than 350 papers, holder of 6 patents, and a member of the National Academy of Engineering.Professor Clarke is currently accepting graduate students in the area of dielectric elastomer and devices, as well as microbial processing of materials.
