 Welcome Research Teaching Students Get in touch About me I am a faculty member at the department of computer science at the university of Toronto. I conduct research in the areas of data management, analysis of big data, data science and applied machine learning. My main interest is to develop techniques and build systems capable to analyze and process massive and diverse data sets. My current focus is in the intersection of recent machine learning techniques and data management. I received a Bachelors Degree from the University of Patras in Greece, a MSc from the University of Maryland at College Park and a PhD degree from the University of Toronto . I co-founded Sysomos a social media monitoring and analytics company, commercializing the research project BlogScope. I have received two best papers awards for my research and served as the research DB track chair for CIKM 2010, as research program co-chair for VLDB 2011, as the Industrial program chair for SIGMOD 2013, as the sponsorship chair for SIGMOD 2014 and 2015 and the tutorial co-chair for VLDB 2018. I also serve as an associate editor for VLDB 2019. I served as a member of the G7 at the Creative Destruction Lab at the Rotman School of Business . I was named the 2011 inventor of the year by the University of Toronto (1st prize) and I serve as an advisor at Round 13 Capital and Highline in Toronto. I am also a co-founder at the Social WiFi Marketing and Analytics company Aislelabs You can find a list of my recent publications here Learn more Interactive Video Inspection We are building a system to execute interactive queries on streaming video. We are investigating query semantics, formulation and interactive query execution utilizing video content and image analysis primitives. Learn more DeepQuery Exploring query processing with a deep learning lens. Revisiting query processing, query execution and estimation utilizing deep learning primitives. Learn more Teaching Here is a list of courses regularly offered CSC2508 Exploration of noSQL/newSQL systems and an understanding their strengths and limitations. We also explore new trends in data management fueld by application needs, such as support for advanced analytics, stream processing systems and main memory data processing CSCC43 Introduction to database design. Topics covered: Entity relationship models, relational algebra, normalization theory, SQL and embedded SQL, implementation of relational database operators. CSCD43 Introduction to the technolgy behind database management systems. The topics covered include: storage systems, buffer management, physical database design, indexing and searching in one and more dimensions, query processing, query optimization, transaction management. Students Here is a list of current and past PhD students. I am actively recruiting new PhD students! Some advice if you are or plan to be a PhD student. Sahand Akbari Pashootan Vaezipoor Sayyed Nezhadi Yannis Xarchakos Xiaohui Yu (York University) Chaitanya Mishra (Facebook) Nikolaos Sarkas (Tower Research Capital) Dimitrios Tsirogannis (Microsoft Research) Albert Angel (Google) Michail Mathioudakis (Aalto University) Nilesh Bansal (serial enterpreneur) Manos Papagelis (UC Berkeley) Milad Eftekhar (Google) Get in touch The best way to contact me is via email. Address Department of Computer Science Bahen Center for Information Technology University of Toronto 40 St. George Street Rm BA5240 Toronto ON M5S 2E4 Email my last name at cs.toronto.edu Phone (416) 946-5819 Social Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Untitled. All rights reserved. Design: HTML5 UP 
