 Main Research Courses Other Aleksandar Nikolov Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto Canada Research Chair in Algorithms and Private Data Analysis About me I am broadly interested in theory of computation and algorithm design, and I am a part of the Theory Group . My current research interests are in the connections between high dimensional geometry and computer science. In my work, I have applied geometric tools to the theory of private data analysis (differential privacy), discrepancy theory, and experimental design. I have also worked on computational questions in high dimensions, such as nearest neighbor search, and various geometric optimization problems. I also think about approximation algorithms, and sublinear and parallel algorithms for analyzing massive data. For more information, look in Research . If any of the above sounds intriguing, and you are a talented and motivated student interested in the theory of computing and the design of algorithms, I encourage you to apply to the University of Toronto. Before coming to Toronto, between October 2014 and July 2015, I was a postdoc researcher in the Theory Group at Microsoft Research in Redmond . Before that, I completed my PhD in Rutgers University's Computer Science department, where I was advised by Muthu . During 2012-2014 I was supported by a Simons Graduate Fellowship . On the more personal side: I was born in Varna, Bulgaria , right on the Black Sea coast. On my mother's side I come from a family of Banat Bulgarians . I came to New Jersey in 2004 to study in St. Peter's College: a small Jesuit college in Jersey City. I first came to Rutgers in 2007, for a summer undergraduate research program (which was a great experience). If you want to be especially friendly, and follow Slavic people's proud tradition of having arbitrary nicknames, you can call me Sasho. Teaching In Winter 2019 I am teaching CSC 473 Advanced Algorithms . In Fall 2018 I taught a course on private data analysis. You can find lecture notes here . In Fall 2015 I tought a course on discrepancy theory and applications to computer science. You can find the lecture notes here . A more recent but abbreviated set of lecture notes is here . For more information on courses I have taught, see Courses . Contact information Office: Sandford Fleming 2301B Email: Curriculum Vitae 
