 [ About me | News | Research | Publications | Service | Talks ] Bianca Schroeder Associate professor Canada Research Chair Sloan Research Fellow E-mail: first-name@cs.toronto.edu Office: Bahen 5236 Computer Science Department University of Toronto Bahen Centre for Information Technology 40 St. George Street Toronto, ON M5S 2E4 Department of Computer and Mathematical Sciences University of Toronto Scarborough IC Building 1265 Military Trail Toronto, ON M1C 1A4 About me Bianca is an associate professor and Canada Research Chair in the Computer Science Department at the University of Toronto and a member of the computer systems and networks group . She is also currently serving as associate department chair in Computer and Mathematical Sciences Department at the University of Toronto, Scarborough. Before joining UofT, she spent 2 years as a post-doc at Carnegie Mellon University working with Garth Gibson. She received her doctorate from the Computer Science Department at Carnegie Mellon University under the direction of Mor Harchol-Balter. She is an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellow, the recipient of the Outstanding Young Canadian Computer Science Prize of the Canadian Association for Computer Science, an Ontario Early Researcher Award, an NSERC Accelerator Award, a two-time winner of the IBM PhD fellowship and her work has won four best paper awards and one best presentation award. She has served on numerous program committees and has co-chaired the TPCs of Usenix FAST'14, ACM Sigmetrics'14 and IEEE NAS'11. Her work on the reliability of hard drives, solid state drives and DRAM have been featured in articles at a number of news sites, including Computerworld, Wired, Slashdot, PCWorld, StorageMojo and eWEEK. Bianca's research focuses on the design and implementation of computer systems, especially large-scale systems, storage systems and data centers. Her current interests mostly evolve around system reliability. News 2017: Four recently accepted publications, fresh off the press: Bianca Schroeder, Arif Merchant, Raghav Lagisetty: Reliability of nand-Based SSDs: What Field Studies Tell Us. Proceedings of the IEEE 105(9): 1751-1769 (2017) Ioan A. Stefanovici, Bianca Schroeder, Greg O'Shea, Eno Thereska: Treating the Storage Stack Like a Network. TOS 13(1): 2:1-2:27 (2017) Nosayba El-Sayed, Hongyu Zhu, Bianca Schroeder: Learning from Failure Across Multiple Clusters: A Trace-Driven Approach to Understanding, Predicting, and Mitigating Job Terminations. ICDCS 2017 : 1333-1344 Farzaneh Mahdisoltani, Ioan A. Stefanovici, Bianca Schroeder: Proactive error prediction to improve storage system reliability. USENIX Annual Technical Conference 2017 : 391-402 June 2016: Ioan has successfully defended his thesis and started a post-doc at MSR Cambridge. February 2016: Our paper on flash reliability is cited in a number of news articles. Some examples below: Article in Forbes Article in The Register Article in ZDNet Article in ZDNet January 2016: Nosayba has successfully defended her thesis and started a post-doc at MIT. Current Research In my current work, I am particularly interested in system reliability. One motivation is that the number of components in today's large-scale IT systems has been continuously growing, with installations regularly exceeding tens of thousands of components. Examples include data centers at Yahoo!, Google and Amazon, as well as many high-performance computing sites. With tens of thousands of components, failures are quickly becoming the norm rather than the exception. A common thread connecting much of my work is that I like to start with measurements in real production systems to characterize the underlying problems in detail. During this process I often make unexpected discoveries, where systems behave/fail differently from what researchers or operators commonly assume. I then use these insights to derive better solutions to problems. In my past work, I have for example measured and analyzed systems at Google, Network Appliances and national laboratories, such as Los Alamos National Lab. Publications For a more up-to-date list of publications see dblp . Conferences and journals N. El-Sayed, I. Stefanovici, G. Amvrosiadis, A. Hwang, B. Schroeder. "Temperature management in data centers: Why some (might) like it hot." Sigmetrics/Performance 2012. pdf . Best paper award . A. Hwang, I. Stefanovici, B. Schroeder. "Cosmic rays don't strike twice: Understanding the characteristics of DRAM errors and the implications for system design." Seventeenth International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS 2012) . pdf . G. Amvrosiadis, A. Oprea, B. Schroeder. "Practical Scrubbing: Getting to the bad sector, at the right time." International Symposium on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN 2012) . pdf . B. Schroeder, Sotirios Damouras, Phillipa Gill. "Understanding latent sector errors and how to protect against them." 8th Usenix Conference on File and Storage Technologies (FAST 2010) pdf . B. Schroeder, E. Pinheiro, W.-D. Weber. "DRAM errors in the wild: A Large-Scale Field Study." Sigmetrics/Performance 2009 . pdf . Winner of Sigmetrics Best Presentation Award . Invited to appear as a "Research Highlight" in the Communications of the ACM. L. Bairavasundaram, G. Goodson, B. Schroeder, A. Arpaci-Dusseau, R. Arpaci-Dusseau, FAST'08. "An analysis of data corruption in the storage stack." 6th Usenix Conference on File and Storage Technologies (FAST 2008). pdf . Best student paper award . Short version of the paper appeared in USENIX Login magazine. Extended version in ACM Transactions on Storage (TOS) Vol. 4 issue 3, 2008. The paper has also been featured in an article on Storagemojo. Bianca Schroeder, Garth Gibson. "Understanding failures in petascale computers." Presented at the SciDAC 2007 conference . Journal of Physics: Conf. Ser. 78. pdf . Bianca Schroeder, Garth Gibson. "The computer failure data repository." Invited contribution to the Workshop on Reliability Analysis of System Failure Data (RAF'07) to be held at MSR Cambridge, UK. pdf . Bianca Schroeder, Garth Gibson. "Disk failures in the real world: What does an MTTF of 1,000,000 hours mean too you?" 5th Usenix Conference on File and Storage Technologies (FAST 2007). pdf Best paper award . Extended version in ACM Transactions on Storage (TOS), Volume 3 Issue 3, October 2007. The above paper has also been featured in an article on slashdot , which so far has received more than 75,000 hits ! Ernst Biersack, Bianca Schroeder. "Scheduling in Practice." Invited to special issue of the ACM Sigmetrics PER (Performance Evaluation Review) on "New Perspectives in Scheduling". To appear in 2007. pdf Bianca Schroeder, Garth Gibson. "A large scale study of failures in high-performance-computing systems." International Symposium on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN 2006). pdf As one of the best DSN'06 papers invited to IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing (TDSC). Bianca Schroeder, Adam Wierman and Mor Harchol-Balter. "Open vs closed: a cautionary tale." 3rd Symposium on Networked System Design and Implementation (NSDI 2006). pdf Bianca Schroeder, Mor Harchol-Balter, Arun Iyengar, Erich Nahum. "Achieving class-based QoS for transactional workloads." Poster paper in 22nd International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE 2006). pdf Bianca Schroeder, Mor Harchol-Balter, Arun Iyengar, Erich Nahum and Adam Wierman. "How to determine a good multi-programming level for external scheduling." 22nd International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE 2006). pdf David T. McWherter, Bianca Schroeder, Anastassia Ailamaki and Mor Harchol-Balter. "Improving Preemptive Prioritization via Statistical Characterization of OLTP Locking." 21th International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE 2005). pdf David T. McWherter, Bianca Schroeder, Anastassia Ailamaki and Mor Harchol-Balter. "Priority Mechanisms for OLTP and Transactional Web Applications." 20th International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE 2004) . pdf Bianca Schroeder and Mor Harchol-Balter. "Web servers under overload: How scheduling can help." . 18th International Teletraffic Congress (ITC 2003) . (Original Tech report Number CMU-CS-02-143, pdf ). Best student paper award . Extended version in ACM Transactions on Internet Technologies (TOIT 2006), vol. 6, no.1, February, 2006. pdf A. Nucci, B. Schroeder, S. Bhattacharyya, N. Taft, C. Diot. "IS-IS Link Weight Assignment for Transient Link Failures." 18th International Teletraffic Congress (ITC 2003) . Mor Harchol-Balter, Bianca Schroeder, Nikhil Bansal, Mukesh Agrawal. "Size-based Scheduling to Improve Web Performance." Transactions on Computer Systems (TOCS 2003) . pdf Mor Harchol-Balter, Nikhil Bansal, and Bianca Schroeder. "Implementation of SRPT Scheduling in Web Servers," Technical report Number CMU-CS-00-170. Postscript . Short version appeared as "SRPT Scheduling for Web Servers" in JSSPP 2001, 7th International Workshop, Cambridge, MA. Bianca Schroeder and Mor Harchol-Balter. "Evaluation of Task Assignment Policies for Supercomputing Servers: The Case for Load Unbalancing and Fairness," 9th IEEE Symposium on High Performance Distributed Computing (HPDC 2000) , 2000. As one of the best HPDC'00 papers invited to Cluster Computing 7(2): 151-161 (2004). pdf S. Albers and B. Schroeder. "An experimental study of online scheduling algorithms." 4th Workshop on Algorithm Engineering (WAE 2000) . As one of the best WAE'00 papers invited to ACM Journal of Experimental Algorithms 7: 3 (2002). Bianca Schroeder. "Upper and Lower bounds for online scheduling," Masters Thesis at the Max-Planck-Institute , Saarbruecken, Germany, December 1998. Book chapters Arun Iyengar, Lakshmish Ramaswamy, and Bianca Schroeder. "Techniques for efficiently serving and caching dynamic web content." In "Recent Advances on Web Data Delivery" by S. Chanson, X. Tang, J. Xu. Kluwer Academic Publisher, 2005. Anastassia Ailamaki, Sailesh Krishnamurthy, Spiros Papadimitriou, and Bianca Schroeder. "The PostgreSQL Open Source DBMS." In "Database System Concepts" by Abraham Silberschatz, Henry F. Korth, S. Sudarshan, 5th Edition. McGraw-Hill Book Company, 2005. Patents A. Iyengar, E. Nahum, and B. Schroeder. "Method for Dynamically Scheduling Requests". Filed in March 2004. S. Bhattacharyya, A. Nucci, N. Taft, B. Schroeder and C. Diot. "Method for Assigning Link Weights in a Communications Network". Sprint Docket Number 1917/SPRI.98254. Filed in February 2003. Professional Service Program committee member 11th USENIX Conference on File and Storage Technologies (FAST 2013) 41th Annual International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN'11) 8th Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 2010) ACM Sigmetrics 2010 8th Usenix Conference on File and Storage Technologies (FAST 2010) 26th IEEE Conference on Mass Storage Systems and Technologies (MSST 2010) Supercomputing (SC10) 40th Annual International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN'10) 39th Annual International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN'09) EuroSys 2009 7th Usenix Conference on File and Storage Technologies (FAST 2009) First USENIX Workshop on the Analysis of System Logs (WASL '08) SRDS Workshop on Sharing Field Data and Experiment Measurements on Resilience of Distributed Computing Systems 16th Conference on Measurement, Analysis and Simulation of Computer and Telecommunication Systems (MASCOTS 2008) 17th International World Wide Web Conference (WWW'08) 38th Annual International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN'08) 16th International World Wide Web conference (WWW'07) 
