 Joseph Jay Williams Search this site Search this site About Me Research Statement Papers Academic CV MOOClet/AdapComp Formalism Current Work About Me Research Statement Papers Academic CV MOOClet/AdapComp Formalism Course on Dynamic A/B Testing Prospective Graduate Students More Research & Applications Representative Talks Online Education Portfolio Teaching & Mentoring Writing & Media News, Events and Blog Modularity & MOOClets Working Group Resources: Online Education MOOClets Working Group Research-Based Learning Principles Rapid Authoring of MOOClets/Lessons/Exercises Online Learning Authoring Tools Creating Resources with Google Apps Experiments & Online Education For EdTech Organizations For Researchers Events relevant to Online Education Collaborating using Online Educational Resources CHI 2014 Course: Conducting Online Experiments Resources: Software & Research Software: Web Development, Collaboration, Productivity Explanation and Learning Behavior Change Social Science Research Recruiting Research Participants via Mechanical Turk Best Practices/Rapid Signup How to perform multi-stage experiments How to prevent workers from participating in experiments multiple times Creating auto-grant qualifications to exclude workers from participating multiple times Using images and Qualtrics options to discourage participating in an experiment multiple times Internal resources on mTurk Third Party Tools to Enhance the Use of Mechanical Turk For Research Useful code Qualtrics Wiki Rapid Creation of a Website Recent site activity Opportunities for Undergraduates edited by Joseph Jay Williams attachment from Joseph Jay Williams Prospective Graduate Students edited by Joseph Jay Williams Course on Dynamic A/B Testing edited by Rain Sharmin View All Navigation About Me My research agenda is to create intelligent self-improving systems that conduct dynamic experiments to discover how to optimize and personalize technology, helping people learn new concepts and change habitual behavior. This requires using computational cognitive science and Bayesian statistics to bridge human-computer interaction with machine learning , with applications to education and health behavior change. Slides and recordings of overview talks are: Slides for broad HCI audience, Recording for broad HCI audience (45 min), Slides for education audience, Recording of TEDxPortofSpain talk . I am an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Toronto, where I moved after an Assistant Professorship at the School of Computing (Information Systems & Analytics, and NUS HCI Lab ) at National University of Singapore (NUS), as well as Research Fellow positions in digital education groups at Harvard and Stanford, and receiving my PhD in Computational Cognitive Science from UC Berkeley. Dynamic Experimentation One example of my research is a system I created for automatically experimenting with explanations, which enhanced learning from math problems as much as an expert instructor [ LAS 2016 ]. Another system boosted people's responses to an email campaign, by dynamically discovering how to personalize motivational messages to a user's activity le vel [ EDM 2015 ]. These successful applications are enabled by my integrative approach : I use my cognitive science theories in deciding the target actions for experimentation (e.g. explanations, motivational messages) and the metrics to optimize (e.g. student ratings, response rates). To generate new actions I design crowdsourcing workflows, leveraging my human-computer interaction research. Data from experiments is analyzed using methods from Bayesian statistics, and algorithms from machine learning are used to turn data into dynamic enh ancement and personalization of users' experiences. My self-improving systems are powered by combining human intelligence in generating hypotheses that can be tested with data with statistical machine learning to automate rapid iteration and improvement. My TEDxPortofSpain talk explains how I use this approach in education, using MOOClets to intelligently adapt explanations for how to solve math problems. You can contact me at: williams@cs.toronto.edu. If you are interested in joining my group, you can emailiaiinterest@googlegroups.com. Office: BA 4238, directions at tiny.cc/joffice . TEDxPortofSpain: Is the internet replacing teachers? News & Updates I am recruiting graduate students this year. Click here to see more . I'm teaching a graduate course on Designing Intelligent Self-Improving Systems Through Human Computation, Randomized A/B Experiments and Statistical Machine Learning on Wednesdays from 2-4 Papers accepted to CHI 2018: Enhancing Online Problems Through Instructor-Centered Tools for Randomized Experiments on design guidelines to help instructors rapidly use data to enhance future student learning. Tuesday in 11-12:20 session in 518C. Understanding the Effect of In-Video Prompting on Learners and Instructors. investigating how learners perceive different prompting strategies and their effects. Harvesting Caregiving Knowledge: Design Considerations for Integrating Volunteer Input in Dementia Care on collaboratively sharing knowledge to optimize volunteer contributions in dementia care. In London for ICLS Symposium , Paper , Two AIED Short Papers ( 1 , 2 ), and AIED Workshop on Collaborative, Dynamic, Personalized Experimentation I am co-chair with Amy Ogan for the new CHI 2019 Subcommittee on Learning, Education and Families, which can be selected when submitting to CHI Sep 14, 2018 I am on the AAAI (Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence) 2019 Program Committee More about my research In blending scie ntific research and applications I collaborate and consult with domain/topic experts, instructors, designers, and researchers from diverse disciplines like education, psychology, and computer science. I draw on theories and methodology from research I have done , as well as synthesizing findings from other scientists , work on behavior change , reviews of evidence-based best practices for teaching and learning, practical experience as a statistics tutor, evaluations of educational technology products & authoring tools for e-learning,experience as an ed-tech consultant and science & technology advisor, and my own active development of interactive learning and behavior change resources . I am currently an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing (Information Systems & Analytics, and NUS HCI Lab ) at National University of Singapore (NUS). Previously I was a Research Fellow at Harvard's VPAL (Vice Provost for Advances in Learning) Research Group, and a member ofthe Intelligent Interactive Systems group led by Krzysztof Gajos in Computer Science. I have a courtesy appointment as a Research Scientist in Computer Science at Worcester Polytechnic Institute, where I am a co-PI with Neil Heffernan on an NSF Cyberinfrastructure grant. We use the ASSISTments K12 online math platform to crowdsource randomized controlled trials from the broader scientific community. I was previously a postdoc at Stanford University in the Graduate School of Education and Lytics Lab, working with the Office of the Vice Provost for Online Learning and Candace Thille 's Open Learning Initiative . I received my PhD in Computational Cognitive Science from UC Berkeley's Psychology Department. I worked with Tania Lombrozo toinvestigate why prompting people to explain "why?" helpslearning, andwith Tom Griffiths on using Bayesian statistics and methods from machine learning to characterize learning, reasoning, and judgment. Sign in | Report Abuse | Print Page | Powered By Google Sites 
